Hey everyone, geohysicist Stefan Burns
here. There are some unusual features
that surround our planet known as
cordalooi clouds and they exist in the
lrangee points created by the earth moon
system. So we have the L5 point, the L4
point. This is based on the
gravitational force. So earth has a very
strong gravitational field. The moon
also has one. But you have these zones
where gravity effectively diminishes
greatly. And they were first observed
back in the '60s, I believe. I think
it's 1967 by Cordalooski himself. And
they're this very transient phenomena.
Uh they've only been observed a few
times, but they're confirmed in 2018 by
the Royal British uh Astronomical
Society.
They are filled with this complex dusty
plasma, it's called, because you get a
lot of dust in space and dust will
attract charge carriers like protons,
electrons to it. And so as a result it
will uh take on charge and if there's a
whole bunch of these dust grains like
not even billions but you know
uncountable number of these dust grains
in space they form these what are called
dusty plasma clouds which can have a
variety of interesting electromagnetic
effects. So we see that there are each
side of the moon and we just had the
full moon pass through the magneto tail
during a solar storm impact. So we see
that the light here is on the earth. So
the sun is over here. Right? So this
would mean that the magnetic field
stretches behind the earth and the moon
in that full moon position passes
through. Well, we see that these clouds
can either enter into that magnetotail
zone before with the L4 cloud or after
with the L5 cloud. I want to talk about
auroral circuits really quick as it
relates to Coralooki clouds because
there's an interesting kind of idea that
I've had. This is by no means
guaranteed, but something interesting to
think about. We know that there are
these auroral circuits that exist,
especially during more active storm
conditions. So, here we have the Earth
and then a right there. This is like the
ionosphere, which is made up of plasma,
1% plasma. It's the upper atmosphere,
which means it has uh conductivity to it
and can host an electric current. Then
we also have these electric currents
created by the solar wind that go into
the auroral zone.
And we see here the thing that's helping
connect the entire circuit together cuz
if you if you have a break and any of
this uh electric current then the
circuit breaks is we have this plasma
cloud there and for example that could
be uh any sort of plasma body within the
magneto tail
and that could also be maybe a
cordalooki cloud because that's also a
plasma body. If it's able to host an
electric current then that could
complete this circuit. Here we have a
double layer. And a double layer is very
uh very very simple. It's when you have
a uh plasma with a very high positive
charge next to a zone of plasma very
close together with a very high negative
charge which creates a very strong
electric field gradient. Here we see
that we see this this is E for electric
field. Here we see goes down and then it
goes up. And this is like uh this is
across time. So this is something
traveling through that double layer
giving us this profile. But this
electric potential is very very large
across the entire circuit. It equalizes
out but in this very minor uh narrow
zone it's a very um powerful electric
field gradient which can accelerate
particles. So if you have this circuit
flowing and current you know these
particles flowing here they hit that
double layer and they will then all of a
sudden rain down into the earth and that
can trigger aurora. And this is
especially active like during substorrms
and such. But one of the things that we
have uh found is that there's an
increase in geometric volatility. It's
more likely to occur when the moon is in
the full moon position. And here we see
the magnetic field of the earth. And we
see the plasma contained in the magneto
tail. And the moon is a large
gravitationally rounded body. It's being
hit by by sunlight. So it develops a
very powerful electric field gradient
from its light side to its dark side.
Right? positive charge here, negative
charge there. That in and of itself is
going to interact with the plasma
magnetoail perhaps uh amplify this
auroral circuit. But we also uh have uh
this data from 1874 to 1954 showing that
geomagnetic uh disturbances are just in
general more common during that full
moon phase and they're least common
during the new moon when the moon is
completely out of the magnetic field
totally out. It's actually kind of in
front of the earth shielding it from
solar wind. So this is 80 years of data.
Definitely worth paying attention to as
a result. And we even see that the the
the most the highest occurrences of GMX
storms is right here slightly after that
full moon phase. And then we see it
ramping up there. We do get a spike
there before the uh first quarter moon,
but in general you have the highest
amount of disturbance right here after
that full moon phase. And well, if we go
back here, we see the Cortalooi clouds.
And so that would be roughly when one of
these clouds is going to be in that
magneto tail. Perhaps that is better
able to uh complete this auroral circuit
and therefore enhance any geomagnetic
activity because geomagnetic activity
and the aurora and therefore the
magnetic field swings that register at
the surface is all based on these
electric circuits. And so the stronger
the electric circuit, the more flow
there is, the more current there is and
therefore the stronger the magnetic
field swings are generated. So
interesting uh side note I wanted to
bring up about corali clouds and the
auroral circuit and how they may be
connected together. We really don't know
that much about these. There's some very
interesting ideas floating around as it
relates to the corali clouds. You can
read about that in a new science of
heaven by Robert Temple. Um he
speculates that these are highly
conscious plasma entities. So you can
look into that if you want. But
regardless, just as it relates to the
kind of electromagnetic dynamics of our
near-earth system, these may be bigger
players than you may have otherwise
realized. And our recent solar storm
that we just had uh is evidence for that
because we have this solar storm right
here that we just had as we see with our
real real-time solar wind data. Um, but
we, you know, it wasn't that I mean it
was significant, but this is a pretty
long duration and perhaps the full moon,
you know, just subtly raised up that
geometic activity level a little bit
more than it would have been otherwise.