The missing mass that we've defined as
the art matter problem isn't missing.
It's the rest of the visible universe
and it's been hiding in plain sight.
It's been there all along. Is the
graviton then composite or fundamental?
It's neither. It doesn't exist. Man,
talk about fighting words. Nature will
keep you honest.
>> This is the legendary Professor Philip
Mannheim, and today I'm excited to bring
you his first [music] ever podcast. He's
been working on a theory which solves
dark matter and quantum gravity
simultaneously for literally decades.
You start out with the standard theory.
It doesn't work for galaxies, so you
invent dark matter. It doesn't work for
cosmology. You invent dark energy. It
doesn't work for quantum theory, so
[music] you invent string theory. I
haven't done that. I've just taken the
theory and I've solved it. On this
channel, I, Kurt Jaungle, interview
researchers regarding their theories of
reality with rigor and technical depth.
Today, what the professor argues is that
we've been wrong about dark matter. We
also have no big bang in the universe.
According to his theory, add further
speculations on what collapses the wave
function is a particle that we don't
see. It's one of the most startling
discoveries in [music] human history. I
I I can't describe it any other way.
>> Welcome to the story of conformal
gravity. Professor, what precisely is
Einstein's theory of gravity? Oh, well,
I have to give you a somewhat extensive
answer to that. Um Einstein in the early
20th century developed what's called the
special theory of relativity and he was
dealing with a problem and the problem
was there was there was Newton's laws of
motion and there were the Maxwell
equations of electromagnetism
and they had different symmetries and
what Einstein realized was there had to
be a universal symmetry which we now
call Lorent invariance which meant
modifying Newton's law and that you can
see this very simply. If you take
Newton's law, it just says u you you you
apply a force, you get an acceleration.
Keep on applying the force, the
acceleration will get bigger and bigger
and bigger and eventually you'll be able
to go faster than the speed of light.
And so something had to change if you
were not going to be able to go faster
than the speed of light. So what he did
was he came up with special relativity
and in a sense this just generalized
Galileo's object and Newton's first
first law of motion that uh there's no
force fell for uniform velocity and
Einstein made it for uniform covariant
velocity and so he finishes up with a
theory in which observers can move with
arbitrary speeds but uniformly up to the
speed of eyes and the physics must be
the same. Now missing from that were two
things. One was well what the observer
is not required to only go at uniform
velocity. The observer is allowed to
accelerate and there was another theory
of Newton's called Newton's law of
gravity which did not obey the
relativity principle. So he had he had
two problems that he had to solve and it
turns out that the solution to those two
problems are different even though we
usually look at Einstein gravity as a
package and that the first issue was um
well suppose you take Newton's second
law of motion force is equal to mass
times acceleration and you rotate the
system then you generate a new term and
M was very concerned about that new term
and he said, "Well, maybe it's fixed by
an interaction with the distant stars."
But what was really happening was that
Newton's law of motion as just written
by Newton and it starts out force is
equal to mass times acceleration, but
then is generalized to special
relativity still was not invariant under
under an arbitrary change in the
coordinates. So if the observer chose to
rotate, the physics should not change,
but the equation changed. And Einstein
found a way of writing down a more
general form of Newton's second law of
motion so that it would not change when
the observer changed um changed um his
speed or or rotated and that one is what
we call the geodeic and let me write it
state it down m d2x lambda da squ that's
the generalization to special relativity
of of Newton's law of motion
plus gamma lambda mu dx mu d to dx mu
new d to equals 0 where gamma lambda mu
is the first derivative of the metric.
It's called the connection and that
equation is a general coordinate vector
and so if you make a transformation that
equation will transform and will remain
zero.
Now it has two features. It's a sum of
two terms. The acceleration the d2x
lambda d to squ and the gamma lambda mu
new dx mu da to dx new da neither term
is separately a general coordinate
vector. In other words both of them will
transform but the combination of them
with the unique weight
is plus the connection not plus twice
the connection
>> the unique weight will remain invariant.
And so that answers the question of how
do you write Newton's law of motion in
an accelerating coordinate system. Now
at this stage it's still got nothing to
do with gravity
and it's and it's and this is still true
in flat space and we do it all the time
when we change from cartisian
coordinates to polar coordinates that
suddenly doesn't make spaceime curved.
So this is simply a property of
coordinates. But Einstein then
discovered something quite remarkable.
Two things that are absolutely
remarkable. One is if he could get
gravity to come out of the connection
term, then because they had the same
weight, you would get two forms of the
equivalence principle that the inertial
mass is equal to the gravitational mass.
Namely, it's m times that whole function
d2x lambda da squ plus gamma lambda mu
da dx mu da and so on. So that would
guarantee you that the m that appears
with the acceleration which is called
the inertial mass and the m that appears
with what's going to be the gravity the
connection would be the gravitational
mass and they would have to be equal
because if they were not equal that's
that quantity would not be a general
coordinate vector. So it has very unique
weights. He also noticed at least I
think he did. I don't know if I said so
was that if you take the connection at
any given point you can make a
coordinate transformation that would
make it zero at a point
>> at one at any at any given point but it
would not be zero at the next point but
at any given point you could make it
zero. And if that were the gravitational
field, then you have shown that it's
equivalent to an acceleration
at that point. And that was that's what
we call the equivalence principle. The
equivalence of gravity and acceleration.
Now the question is when is it real? If
you can move it away, [laughter]
how how do you know if it's real? And if
you read the relativity textbook of
Adler, Bazan and Shifa, they say, well,
you might be able to transform so that
you have a rotating flywheel, but a
rotating flywheel certainly does a lot
of damage,
>> right? So then the question is when is
it real and when is it and when is it
just an artifact of making a
transformation? And the answer is but
you can't change the second derivative.
The connection is the first derivative
of the metric, but making the change in
the first derivative doesn't change the
second derivative. So you can't get rid
of that as well. And the second
derivative gives you the reman tensor.
And so the reman tensor by definition of
a tensor, if it's non zero, there is no
coordinate transformation that can make
it zero.
And therefore what Einstein realized was
that if gravity was described by the
reman tensor
then you would have a general coordinate
invariant description of gravity.
So from looking at the geodeic alone you
learn the metric is the gravitational
field. the metric couples in a general
coordinate invariant way and that when
the geometry is not flat namely when the
reman tensor is non zero then you have
an an an effect that we call gravity
okay now all of that
is intrinsic to Einstein's program
and any in my opinion any theory of
gravity must contain all of those
ingredients.
However, what that does not tell you is
what is the gravitational field. You now
know that the connection depends on the
metric. You know that the remanensor
depends on the metric, but you don't
know what the reman tensor is. So, you
need an equation to fix the reman
tensor.
And then you will be able to solve the
theory, get the gravitational field, and
then you'll be able to determine the
response of a particle to a
gravitational field. So that those are
the steps you need. So how does Einstein
fix an equation that's going to tell him
what the metric is? The discovery that
the metric is the gravitational field,
in my opinion, is one of the most
startling discoveries in human history.
I mean, I I I can't describe it any
other way. I mean I I was used to
writing down the line element dword is
at mu dx mu dx mu is is the the s word
and he turns at mu which is 1 one one
minus one he turns it into gravity
I I mean I've known this for many many
years and I'm still startled that he was
able to do that but it doesn't tell you
what the metric is and he then does the
following he says well I want to I've
now answered Question a namely how do we
describe physics in an accelerating
coordinate system? But what do I do
about Newton's law of gravity? Well, if
you write down Newton's law of gravity,
you write down the pluson equation deli
equals row and it's a second derivative.
And the rement tensor is also a second
derivative of um of the metric. So if
the metric is the gravitational field,
it's very natural to generalize Newton's
the pluson equation to an accelerating
coordinate system by using what are
called the Einstein equations which are
based on the Richie tensor and the
Richie scaler using the Einstein tensor.
So it's it's what you would do if you
wanted to ask the question which is what
I believe Einstein asked. What does
Newton's law of gravity namely the um
quason's law look like in an
accelerating coordinate system?
>> Einstein works that through comes up
with the Einstein equations and they
give him two things. They give him one
is Newton's law and they give the v^2
over c^² correction and then that is
tested in the perihelion of mercury and
in the gravitational bending of light.
However, it's phen I hate to say this.
It's phenomenology because he starts out
with del^ squ= row and works his way up
to general relativity.
But why would he choose where did del
square fals row come from?
Only only from it only from the
experience that we previously had of of
new newton's law of gravity. So it's not
deriving Newton's law of gravity. It's
actually finding a generalization of it
which would hold in an accelerating
coordinate system and um that was that
was the steps those were the steps he
took.
>> Now just a moment I have a quick
question. Okay. So what's wrong with
already knowing where you want to end up
and then thinking okay I need to make my
theory such that in some appropriate
limit I need to end there. That actually
sounds like good physics cuz it's like
we know this guy works approximately for
the majority of cases. Yes,
>> we should get there.
>> Okay.
What I'm saying is it's on a different
conceptual footing than the equivalence
principle. General coordinate
invariance. The metric is the
gravitational field. The reman tensor
when it's non zero means there is a
gravitational field. All of that is
generic.
the Einstein equations are specific and
they're constructed to do a specific
thing which you're absolutely right at
that time that was the specific thing he
wanted to do. There's no no question
about that. However, we run into a
problem and the problem is that people
look at the Einstein theory as a
package.
Namely, they don't distinguish between
accelerating observers and gravitational
field. And they are different because
even if there's no gravity, you can
accelerate in the presence of an
electromagnetic field. And in fact,
electromagnetic fields cause
accelerations. So they all have they all
have to work. Um so he picks on the
second order equation because that was
the one that was there. And when it
works, everybody said the theory of
gravity is solved.
But what I'm trying to show you is that
there was a flaw. not necessarily a
super flaw, but there was a step in the
reasoning that wasn't as secure as
everything else. Now, what have we done
when he does this? We call what he did
general relativity,
but that's not fair and that's not a
fair description because special
relativity means invariance under Lorent
transformations.
It doesn't mean any specific equation of
motion. So general relativity should
mean invariance under general coordinate
invariance with the metric being the
gravitational field.
That's what it should mean. It should
not mean and the gravitational field
obeys the Einstein equations.
But because he did the two at once and
because it worked,
everybody takes the view that that that
you have you can't touch anything. Now
let me show you immediately
where it can go wrong. And the question
is where did we get pluson's law from?
Well, Newton gives us a 1 / r potential
and delt fi is is row. The solution is 1
/ r. Well, suppose I gave you del 4i=
row. A fourth order derivative equation.
The solution is a 1 / r plus an r. If I
give you del 6fi equals row, I get a 1 /
r, an r, and an r cubed. In other words,
Newton's law of motion 1 / r is not
uniquely tied to the second order plus
equation.
But all those other terms, the ones that
grow like r or grow like r cubed,
aren't important for the solar system
because the solar system was still very
short distance. So those terms could
always have been there. And you wouldn't
know from looking at the solar system,
>> right? It's when we go to galaxies and
we jump up by a factor of a thousand
that all of a sudden the question is
does Newton's law of gravity continue to
hold untouched or is there something
else going on which we usually call dark
matter?
We meet dark matter in the regime where
we did not derive the Einstein equations
in the first place. Namely, it was
geared to the solar system. But what
Einstein does by generalizing it to the
Einstein equations, it then becomes the
Einstein equations on every scale
and not just on the solar system. Now
this objection was raised by Edington in
about 1920.
He pointed out he said look
you can get the Einstein equations by
varying what's called the Einstein
Hilbert action which is just the Richie
scaler. He says well you can also get
them from varying the Richie scaler
squared
but you get these extra terms.
So you there was nothing unique about
the second order Passon equation
and I've been arguing for a long time
now that if you want to make the claim
that the universe is full to the brim
with dark matter you have to find some
fundamental principle that would tell
you why you should be using the second
order parson equation
and that's the challenge and so that's
that that's that's where That's where I
think there's a difficulty in the
theory. I'm not saying that the universe
isn't full of dark matter. I mean, that
doesn't follow from what I've said so
far. Um, but nonetheless,
uh, there is this loophole in the way
that Einstein gravity is constructed. So
it's it's a theory which tells you um I
have a very specific equation of motion
and that's the one that you use and
that's the one that gives you Newton's
Newton's law. But what I'm arguing is
Newton's law was built into it. It it's
it's output if you had some other reason
to use the to use the Einstein
equations. But as long as the way
Einstein built it up as far as I can see
is it's Newton's law of twasson's law
and Newton's law were input. Now can we
change the Einstein equations? Well of
course everybody but everybody including
Einstein changed the Einstein equations
by adding on a cosmological constant.
So from the very beginning Einstein was
saying well it's the the theory is not
unique. I can add on extra terms. The
one he added on was the um cosmological
constant which has had one of the most
checkered histories
of anything in physics. But the fact
that he was able to do it meant that
what he was working with was not unique.
>> Right? If it were unique then you either
would be able to add it or not. You
would know. But he didn't. He because it
because the Einstein equations were not
unique
that left open the possibility of adding
on a constant lambda which is the
cosmological constant that Einstein
himself did or adding on the Richie
scaler squared which is what Edington
did. So there's a lack of uniqueness
and if my view is that we have to
resolve this lack of uniqueness one way
or the other and that will tell us
whether we should be living in a
universe with dark matter and dark
energy and so on. Okay. Now so that's
Einstein gravity. Now at the same time
people started to think about the
quantum version of Einstein gravity and
here the interesting thing is Einstein
is responsible basically for quantum
theory and for gravity and yet when you
put them together you run into trouble.
>> It's it's very ironic.
>> So what is called quantum gravity does
not mean find me a theory of a a quantum
theory of gravity. It's finally a theory
of gravity whose low energy limit is is
Einstein.
I remember the doubt before I launched
this podcast. What if no one shows up?
Starting anything legitimate and
seriously feels like a huge leap. And
Shopify is who I trust. It powers
millions of businesses from Mattel to
Gym Shark to people just getting
started.
Its checkout is the best converting
checkout anywhere. It helps customers
finish and returning buyers have their
details saved. One tap and done.
Remember that you're not doing it alone.
Shopify's AI writes your product
descriptions. It'll sharpen your photos.
It'll build your storefront from
hundreds of templates so you look
established from day one. And because
Shopify handles the setup and checkout,
you get more time to grow and the tools
to do it. Inventory, payments,
analytics, they all live under one roof,
online and in person with award-winning
support whenever you need it. With
Shopify, nothing stands between your
ideas and a real business. So, go make
it one. Start your free trial at
shopify.com/theories.
That's shopify.com/theories
to start your free trial with Shopify.
I'm endlessly curious about focus, both
in my personal life and then for this
show. For instance, how does the mind
actually hold on to attention? So, this
data is what got me and my wife to try
Ultra. Ultra is a pouch that's
completely nicotine free, caffeine-f
free as well. It was built with
neuroscientists around clinically proven
neutropics. Infinity, for instance, for
smooth, clean energy, and elenine for
calm focus. No nicotine, so no
withdrawal, no caffeine, so no crash. I
found them extremely clean and easy to
use. They come in these little pouches
here. Ultra says 90% of users saw real
improvements in focus. In fact, right
now I have the watermelon flavor right
here. Practically, it couldn't be
simpler. You tuck a pouch under your
lip. There's nothing to brew. There's
nothing to clean. There's nothing to
schedule a meeting around. I personally
keep a tin at my desk and it works
within 10 minutes. If your afternoons
could use a Sharper, guilt-free lift
without the jitter, they're definitely
worth a try. New customers get 15% off
with the code TOE at takeulttra.com.
That's take ultra.com using code TOE and
tell them we sent you.
>> So it's find me a quantum theory of
Einstein gravity but not find me a
theory of gravity. And the difference
between those two is something like
gravity has this set of features. One of
them being general coariance. Another
one being we're going to get to this
richy flatness at say the solar system
level. Another one being that you want
it to follows geodessics and so forth.
And you could also have that it follows
Einstein's equations, but Einstein's
equations don't follow from this feature
list. That's right. They're they're
independent of that list. Yes. Got it.
Exactly. That That's very good. So,
as far as I can see,
there is a lack of uniqueness in the
theory of gravity as it's formulated.
And when people talk about quantum
gravity, they mean we already know the
classical theory of gravity and
therefore we will try to find a quantum
theory that will have that as its
classical limit.
Now we've done that with
electromagnetism.
Electromagnetism
is is a very unusual theory because in
the following sense is Maxwell writes
down the Maxwell equations. Maxwell
doesn't know anything about relativity
but he writes down the Maxwell
equations. Einstein comes along
introduces special relativity and the
Maxwell equations don't change. Then
Einstein use introduces general
coordinate invariance and the Maxwell
equations still don't change and then
quantum field theory comes along and the
Maxwell equations still don't change.
>> Mhm.
I mean the most amazing thing is that
when people write down quantum
electronics they write down the actual
action
using quantum fields but how can they do
that because I Maxwell didn't derive it
for quantum fields the answer is the
quantum electronamics theory happens to
be reormalizable
and therefore the output classical
fields which are really matrix elements
of the quantum operators will obey the
same equations.
So if we wanted to to discover a theory
of quantum gravity,
we would try to mimic what we we've
already successfully done in quantum
electronamics
and we would look for a theory whose
matrix elements,
gravitational fields whose matrix
elements would behave as the the
classical theory that we'd like it to
behave as.
So we're we're sort of not doing things
the right way. And the reason I say that
is historically we started out with
classical physics and then got to
quantum physics. But we now know that's
the wrong way to go. I mean we always
say that classical classical physics is
the limit h bar goes to zero where h is
plag's constant. But h bar never goes to
zero. It's what it is. You no there's no
mechanism to switch it off. What there
is is a way to get interference so that
you get you get classical you get
classical results but nothing to do with
letting h bar go to zero. So the
question that I started to think about
was well in order to get a proper
quantum theory of gravity we need to
know what classical limit we're aiming
for.
>> Yes. Okay. Whereas
have done something completely
different. They say we already know the
classical limit and we're going to try
to work work it through. And well, they
haven't they haven't succeeded is the
best way to say it. And but I I
certainly don't say that they've not
invested an incredible amount of thought
into it. Let me see if I got this
straight. There's a symmetry which we're
going to get to called conformal
symmetry which you say and your
colleagues that you and your
collaborators I mean
>> yes
>> will solve the issues of dark matter and
dark energy twinly as well as QG quantum
quantum gravity
>> yes
>> and that it's not so unnatural so some
people may look at that and say it's
contrived but you say no no no let's run
a thought experiment let's imagine
Einstein didn't happen but quantum
theory developed and you have Q of QED
QCD and so forth And then you think okay
I don't have this classical gravity
doesn't exist in this thought
experiment. You have a wish list as I
mentioned a feature list of what I want
gravity to have features I want gravity
to have general coariance etc etc. But
you don't have Einstein's field
equations.
>> Yes. What would be natural to you
knowing quantum theory would be to write
down a a renormalizable yes field
equation set of field equations and
something that is
thrown out called the vile curvature in
for Einstein is something that you say
maybe we we don't need to throw it out
and if we included it
>> yes
>> then we not only have this conformal
symmetry but we have reormalizability we
have all the best of scenarios which
also happens as a consequence we're not
even trying it also explains dark matter
and dark energy.
>> Yes.
>> So, is that roughly correct?
>> Yes, it it's roughly correct. And you
you had John Donahghue on your your
program at one time. John and I have
both agreed on the following that if
quantum field theory had been developed
before Einstein gravity, we would not
have gone to that particular theory. We
would have looked for a reormalizable
field theory from the very beginning
because SU3 cross SU2 cross U1 the
strong electromagnetic and weak
interactions are reormalizable theories.
So we have to ask why are they
reormalizable theories
and we already know that Einstein is the
Einstein theory is not reormalizable
and the huge efforts in loop quantum
gravity in string theory and so on have
been to try to make it into a consistent
quantum theory and that's an a very an
extensive and very committed exercise
that those people have done But what I
ask is well can I find a reormalizable
theory of gravity? Now what makes
quantum electronamics reormalizable?
Well the answer is it has a
dimensionless coupling constant
whereas Einstein gravity is not
reormalizable because it has a
dimensionful
uh coupling constant. Now we've already
measured met that with the weak
interaction. The for fermy fermy wrote
down the for fermy interaction with g
fermy that was dimensionful and the
theory was not reormalizable but we
discovered we could rewrite it as a
gauge theory and so we found in the end
that there was a different formulation
of the quantum theory that would get us
back to the for fermy interaction at at
low momenta momenta much less than the
mass of the w or the z bzon so that's
suggesting to us that we shouldn't be
looking at Einstein gravity as um the
way we have been we should only be
looking to see what we get at in in a
low energy limit. So that was so the
first question was why is quantum
electronamics reormalizable and the
answer is because it's got a
dimensionless coupling constant but I
could have given you a maxual action
which would be instead of it being f mu
f mu it could have been f mu box f munu
where box is the second derivative
that's just as good electronamics
there's nothing wrong with it it's
covariant it obeys special relativity
But it's not reormalizable.
And the reason it's not reormalizable
but by adding in the dell squ you have
to add in something else a coupling
constant which has a dimension because
the whole thing has to have the action
still has to have dimension four. So why
would we not use del square f mu newu
del squ f mu for for for
electromagnetism? And you say it's not
reormalizable. And I say well um you
have to decide whether Einstein's lack
of reormalizability would also exclude
it. If you want to exclude fu new del^
squ f mu new because it's not
reormalizable then you should exclude
Einstein gravity as well. So you have a
conundrum. So instead what I realized
was that anything other than f mu squar
would not be conformal invariant
and conformal invariance and in it
simply says it says you take a triangle
and you stretch it up then all the
angles remain the same but if you have a
little weight hanging on one of the arms
then as you stretch it up that arm will
sag and so if you have masses you lose
the conformal symmetry.
So when Vile introduced this and it was
very soon after after Einstein about
1918 or so the problem with it was well
things do have mass
but we learned much much later in the
1960s with with the development of of
Goldstone Bzons that mass can come in
the back door. It it can come in through
the vacuum. It's not a property of the
operators or the equations of motion. is
a property of the states that you
calculate the operators in. So it's
possible now that we know about
spontaneous breakdown it's possible to
go back and say well now we can have a
universe which has a conformal limit.
You see and so if you do that
you then explain why quantum
electronamics is reormalizable after
all.
Now when you do it for gravity as as you
noticed
you're led to fourth order equations of
motion the reason being is
each the the reman tensor is two
derivatives of the metric reman tensor
squar is four derivatives of the metric.
The action is integral d4x and therefore
the coefficient is is dimensionless. Now
you can have global scale invariance
which just means you have rich square
richy tensor squared and reman tensor
squ or you can have local conformal
invariance namely that you do this
locally at every given point of the
spaceime
>> then you're led to a unique action which
is the square of the vile tensor
and the vile tensor is approximately the
traceless piece of the reman tensor
and so you could have this theory which
would be based on the vile tensor and it
leads up to fourth order equations and I
started to think about that that theory
because conformal symmetry would be
pointing me in the same direction that
it's pointing me in SU3 cross SU2 cross
U1. So that would make gravity as close
as possible to the standard theory. Um
people that I spoke to all told me the
same thing and that was that this theory
had states of negative norm namely ghost
states. It was not unitary. It's not
physical and it can't be allowed.
Uh I knew that [laughter] I didn't quite
know what to do about it. But about I'd
been working on something else. I've
been working in particle physics. I'm
not I'm not a relativist. I'm not an
astrophysicist. I'm a train I'm a
particle physicist and I did my first
posttock in Brussels with Robert Brout
and France Anglair and they had they
were manybody theorists and their ideas
on on what we now call the brow the
Anglere Higs mechanism came about
because they knew about Anderson's
mechanism for for making photons massive
in in a superconductor. And at the same
time renormalization group ideas were
just coming in to into condensed matter
through the work of of Wilson and
Kadanov and so on and it was gradually
being transcribed into uh into particle
physics. And so I had this training in
reormalization group and from there from
Brussels I I came to the institute for
advanced study in Princeton and at that
point I asked the following question at
the phase transition the whole the whole
system is correlated into long range
order and that's a scale symmetry you
have correlation lengths that extend the
full length of the crystal and that's
the scale invariance
but the order parameter is zero.
the there's no magnetization. The
magnetization only comes when you go
below the critical point. But at the
critical point, which is what the
condensed matter people were doing, you
had exactly um scale symmetry. So I
started to ask the question, well, could
I get scale symmetry as a way of
generating masses? Namely, not looking
at a system at the critical point, but
looking at a a system at t equals z.
And I found a dynamical way to do that
in which I had a conformal symmetry that
was restored because I was at what's
called a fix point namely that the
coupling constant obeyed very spee
operator and when its dimension And it's
typically it is dimensions three cuz
it's three halves for each spinner. When
it dimension drops to two then the
theory becomes so infrared divergent
that it spontaneously breaks and you get
long range order. And so I had by that
point I had understood that there was a
way to get mass generation in a theory
with no mass scales. Hm.
So I then pressed on and I I worked on
Grand Unified theories and so on. And in
the late 1980s
I got a
uh national um Academy of Sciences
National Research Council fellowship to
the Godard Space Flight Center in in
Maryland branch of NASA in Maryland for
for a year. I went there and I started
to collaborate with a person called
Deeos Kazanist. Now Deeos was an
astrophysicist
which I was not and he also knew
relativity which was very helpful. He
had originally been a student of Dave
ShraMM at Chicago um Enrico Fermy
Institute got a position at NASA and he
had actually discovered inflation before
goth.
um he had written a paper that if the
universe went through a desitter phase
then there would be no horizon problem.
Now it's very interesting that I
mentioned Anglair and browse they at the
same time working with Edgar Gunig had
also shown that if the universe went
through a desitter phase there wouldn't
be a horizon problem. Alan Guth's work
came a little bit later, but what he
showed was that yes, you also solve the
flatness problem, which by the way, dark
energy has unsolved, but we'll get back
to that a bit later perhaps. Um, sorry,
just a moment. In order to make this
more comprehensible to people, they may
be confused at what is renormalization
exactly. So, can we give a a quick
threeminut crash course on
reenormalization, reenormalization
group,
>> okay,
>> which is not precisely the same thing.
And then also conformal symmetry as
distinct from just mere scale
invariance.
>> Okay. All right. Um reormalization
is you're faced with the following
issue. You write down a theory, you take
the free theory, you quantize it, you
get an infinite number of modes because
a field is described at every single
point of the spaceime. It's it's not
described on a line. It's all over. And
therefore in momentum space that means
an infinite number of modes. And then
when you start to interact switch on an
interaction and you interact then you
can excite every one of these modes
and that's an that's an that's an
infinite effect
because you're swimming over an infinite
number of modes and that's bad news.
However, in a reormalizable theory, you
can redefine the parameters that are
already in the lrangeian
to make the reormalized charge the
reormalized mass in such a way that you
can cancel those infinities.
Now, in Einstein gravity that doesn't
work. You can cancel the infinity first
order, but then it comes back in second
order and you you can never catch up
because it's not a reormalizable theory.
But reormalizable means that the theory
can handle
its infinite modes that you put into it
by quantizing the theory
that you that you can do summations over
modes in such a way that you can still
get finite answers. I subscribe to the
economist. Their science and their AI
coverage is among the best I found
anywhere. And I say that as someone who
reads plenty of it. I'll give you some
examples. They just ran an analysis on
how attitudes towards science are
changing in American politics and what
this means for research and funding in
scientific institutions moving forward.
This sort of highquality reporting is
fantastic. They even covered how dark
energy may be weakening over time. Now,
if that holds up, it completely changes
our understanding of the universe's
fate. If you watch this channel, those
are exactly the kinds of questions that
we explore every week. I subscribe to
The Economist because their science and
their AI reporting regularly surprises
me with how deep it goes. And they're
also of course known for global affairs,
both political and economic reporting.
They are top tier. And interestingly and
flatteringly, TOE is one of the only
podcasts that The Economist partners
with. So as a listener, you get an
exclusive 35% off. That's not a deal
that they have just anywhere. Head to
economist.com/toe
to subscribe. That's economist.com/toe
for 35% off. Now, Fineman said it was a
dopey procedure and and there's some
ancient views, not ancient, but
100-year-old views from direct and he
said that he didn't he saw it as
sweeping infinities under the rug. But
it's much more rigorous than that. It's
become much more rigorous since the 80s.
So, do you also view it as a trick?
>> Okay. Um, I I I don't view it as a
trick, but if we could get that trick to
work for gravity, I think everyone would
be happy.
Um, I I certainly don't think it was a
trick. Um, DRA actually tried to deal
with this infinity problem by
introducing an indefinite metric.
And I'll I'll come back to that when we
talk about PT symmetry. Perfect. So
there actually is a solution to that
problem. Um PI picked up on it as well.
And in fact that's how PI got to the pi
villow regulator which is 1 over k^ 2 -
m^ 2us 1 over k^ 2 - m prime^ 2. So it's
a difference of two propagators and pi
villow is able to do this reormalization
while while preserving gauge invariance.
>> Right? But then you've got that minus
sign which we'll have to deal with and
there's a lot of story a whole story in
that.
>> It's like whack-a-ole. Like you solve
one problem and then some others creep
up and you just have to whack them down
and something else pops up.
>> Okay. With with the best will in the
world I would say that dark matter, dark
energy, string theory, super symmetry,
extra dimensions, anthropic principle is
doing exactly what you just said.
>> Okay. So now conformal symmetry means ah
okay conformal symmetry it goes like
this. you can make uh the Lorent group
has six generators, three boosts and
three rotations and the prankare group
adds in four translations. So that 6 + 4
is 10. You could also make a dilitation
which is just a one-time stretching
which gets you to 11. But then there's
another four transformations you can
make which are called special conformal
transformations which involve
reciprocals of of the coordinates and
those 15 objects close on a group
and that group is the conformal group
and it's the full symmetry of the ly
cone. Right? In other words, you can see
why if the light cone says ds^2 is equal
to zero, then 25 ds^2 is also equal to
zero. So what you finish up with is the
light cone has more symmetry than lorent
and pankor.
However,
standard gravity is based on
making local lorren transformations and
local um pankorank
translations.
but not on making the conformal
transformations local. That's what Vile
does. Uh we'll get back to that. So the
so reormalization
is a procedure
which will work and it's fully
legitimate and people have proven
rigorous results about whether a theory
is reormalizable or not. Um what I've
described for you a moment ago is
exactly how SU2 crossu1 got off the
ground.
It was you replace the germy by the
exchange of a gauge bzon. You made the
gauge bzon massive by the angller brow
higs mechanism and then you had to show
that the radiative corrections the the
reormalization loops are under control
and they were and that's that's why we
think the theory is correct and it's
been tested. So it it it's hard to see
why it would be wrong. So that so that's
renormalization. Now
the next question was well when you do
reormalization
you have to introduce a scale which is a
cutoff because you've got this infinite
number of modes and then you introduce
what's called a counter term which
depends on the cutff in the opposite
way. So it cancels it and a
reormalizable theory says you can get
away with a finite number of counter
terms and always get rid of this lambda.
But the lamb intrinsically breaks the
scale because it has a scale. And
therefore you had a different question
which was well I've got a lander in
first order, a lander in second order, a
lander all the way out to every order.
Can they organize themselves in such a
way that that they all cancel each
other?
And you can see the following. Let's
suppose I have a term that goes like e
to the minus lambda.
>> Mhm.
>> It's 1 minus plus lambda^ 2 / 2 minus
lambda cubed over 3 where all those
terms have unique coefficients. And if
everything works out and all the
coefficients come out the way I just
described, then that entire sum which
looks like it's violently divergent will
go like e to the minus lambda and
therefore vanish when lambda goes to
infinity.
That happens when you have a what's
called a reormalization group fix point.
Namely, it's it turns out that it
controls all of the radiative
corrections. Each one of those terms
that lambda lambda square, they're all
quantum loops and they're called
radiative corrections. They're all
controlled in such a way that the sum of
them is well behaved and in a in a
crystal at this critical point you ask
the following question. You have a you
have a high temperature ferroagnet and
you lower the temperature. How does it
know it's supposed to go into into into
a ferroagnetic phase? How does it know
it's supposed to produce an order
parameter? And that is you need a
cooperation of all of the modes of the
theory into what's called long range
order.
>> Yes.
>> So, and what made people like Wilson
really excited was that you could get
long range order from short-range forces
that you did not need long range forces
to get long range order. And that's and
the best example of that was the icing
model. And so you have this long range
symmetry which is a conformal symmetry
which occurs if you have if you're at a
fixed point of the reormalization group.
Now there are two options for this fixed
point. One is that it's the physical
coupling constant and that that's an
idea that goes back to Galman and low in
quantum electronamics and the other is
that you go that you asmtote to that
value and that's that's Wilson's point
Wilson's point was the the zero of
what's called the beta function doesn't
have to be it doesn't doesn't have to be
the physical coupling constant it can be
but it it didn't have to be and then
People discovered that if this funny
beta function which usually goes like
this instead went turned down then the
theory becomes what's called
asmtotically free and that that was a
bombshell that was the the work of of
Dave Pollitzer Frank Wilch and David
Gross and when they discovered that
nonabelian gauge theories were
asmtotically free and at the same time
Huft and Fel and Velman had shown that
nonabelian gates theories were
reormalizable which was not known at the
time and then Weineberg Salam and Glacia
had been promoting weak interactions
based on these nonabelian gauge theories
and then everything came in the neutral
currents came in the the W and the Z
bzons came in and a few years ago the
Higs bzon came in so everything
everything comes in and it then looks
very much as though um the the
fundamental theory of nature at at least
for 3 + 2 + 1 is strong electromagnetic
and weak
is uh reormalizable gauge theories.
So at this point and they're all
reormalizable because they're conformal
invariant
except
there's one snag in the standard theory
and that is that we write down this
funny double well potential
and the double well potential
you can write it as lambda ph 4 minus
mu^2 f^ 2 and the minus mu^2 has a scale
otherwise the potential would wouldn't
wouldn't go up and come down again. So
in the standard theory of introducing
the double well potential you break the
scale invariance in the lrangeian and
there's no scale invariance
however what I had been doing in
dynamical symmetry breaking with sib
replacing the scalar field
then there is scale invariance and it's
broken in the vacuum
so I had a different way of approaching
things and as far as I can see conformal
symmetry can only be relevant in the
real world under two circumstances. one
that we are at a reormalization group
fixed point so that all those lambda
lambda squares are all organized
themselves and two that there is no
fundamental scalar field there's no
elementary scalar field that it must be
a dynamical bound state
and I've written papers saying the
diagnostic that we need to identify is
can we tell if the higs bzon the 125 5G
that we've discovered is it in the
elementary lrangeian or is it a dam
dynamical dam state?
>> In other words, is the Higs composite?
>> Yes. Is it composite? So if it's com if
it's elementary and it goes into the
fundamental theory, then you no longer
have scaling variance because of the
minus mu^2.
>> So you need mass to be dynamically
generated. Yes. And if the hicks was
composite, it would have this dynamical
generated mass which would have
conformal invariance. They follow all
the they follow together. Yes. Now
if the Higs is elementary and it's in
the the lrangeian
then it's the god particle because it
gives mass to everything. If on the
other hand it's dynamical
then the vacuum is the god vacuum
because the vacuum gives mass to
everything.
And so and what's the what's the benefit
of having a dynamical scalar field? The
benefit is that you no longer have to
deal with the hierarchy problem. You see
the hierarchy problem says the following
that when you calculate the self energy
of a scalar field it can emit well we
say it couples to the firmians so emits
a firmian and absorbs a firmion and that
gives a quadratic divergent energy and
we have to reormalize it down. Now you
could have said, "Oh, but that also
happens for photons." But photons has
gauge invariance and that protects you
and the scalar field doesn't have any
any invariance. And so you've you have
no real way of making its mass um come
all the way down to 125 GV. There was a
mechanism that was specified to do that
which is called super symmetry. But we
now know from the LHC not having super
having found any super particles. We
know that even if super symmetry exists,
there are no super symmetry particles in
the same mass region as as the Higs Bzon
that could solve this hierarchy problem.
So the failure of the LHC to find super
symmetry is actually a serious challenge
for the standard SU3 cross SU2 cross U1
theory. Now scale and variance could be
global or local. You could change the
scale globally just over the whole
system or you could point by point.
>> When it's local, it's called conformal
symmetry. So that's the background that
I was working in on considering
conformal symmetry as playing a role in
mass generation in elementary particle
physics namely in SU3 cross SU2 cross
U1.
Um and I showed that if you do that then
you get dynamical goldstone bzon uh
massless particle and you get a
dynamical hig bzon with the mass and
that's I've suggested that that should
be um the the true hicks. Now when I got
to NASA and I started to collaborate
with Deos Kazanis, this was in the
1980s,
we started to think about the question
of the cosmological constant.
Because when if you think of this double
well potential, the difference between
the the upper maximum and the lower
minimum, that's the energy of the vacuum
and that that is the cosmological
constant. So when you have spontaneous
breakdown, you produce a cosmological
constant even if you didn't have one to
begin with. In phase transitions, that
just says you get you you release free
energy when you make the phase
transition. And so there's this energy
that's suddenly appearing. And
no matter what theory of gravity you
have, we do know that as the universe
cools down, it does go through the
electroeak phase transition. And that's
at least at a TEV and a TEV is 10^ the
15° and so a black body would be t 4
would be 10^ the 60. And so we know that
we release a cosmological constant which
is at least 60 orders of magnitude
bigger than the data could possibly
support. So that's the cosmological
constant problem. And super symmetry had
this wonderful idea. You have a
contribution from a firmian and
contribution from a Bzon. Because of
Fermy statistics, the firm loop has an
extra minus sign and they cancel. And so
super symmetry became extremely
fashionable because it could do that. It
could it could control the vacuum
energy. It could control the Higs
energy. It became
an ingredient for getting string theory
down from 26 dimensions to 10
dimensions. So it becomes the super
string theory. And of course, super
particles would be an ideal candidate
for dark matter.
So it covers an enormous set of issues
in particle physics. However, it still
needs to be found and that's not
happened.
So super symmetry has the problem that
it only controls the cosmological
constant if the super symmetry is exact.
Namely, the mass here and the mass there
cancel.
>> Mhm. They can't cancel because we know
the super particles which we haven't
found must be at least a teev in mass
and therefore they don't cancel and
therefore the broken super symmetry
gives you a very big cosmological
constant
and so super symmetry which was a good
idea in order to control the energy of
the vacuum really doesn't do it. Okay.
So Deos Kazanos and I was thinking about
this in the 1980s. This is long before
the accelerating universe. That didn't
occur till 1998.
And we were looking for a mechanism to
control the cosmological constant.
And I realized that there was another
symmetry beyond super symmetry which is
conformal symmetry because if it's
exact, remember the the the
angles remain the same when you scale
everything up. And so we started to
think about the idea that gravity might
have a conformal symmetry.
And we realize immediately that the
action would have to be the square of
the vile tensor. It would lead us to
fourth order equations of motion.
And so we started to work on that. And
of course
[laughter] I was fully aware
and my colleagues were constantly
telling me uh don't work on this theory
because it has a ghost. It's not a
unitary theory. And I [laughter] didn't
know enough to be able to refute them.
But I said, "Never mind. Let's see if
nature likes the theory cuz if it does,
nature will know how to solve the ghost
problem even if I don't know how to
solve it." So that was my strategy. So
we write down this C² theory. This is
1987 1988.
The equations of motion of fourth order
derivative equations. They're absolutely
grotesque.
In those days, there was no software
package that you could just open up and
say, "Give me the vial tensor."
>> Right?
>> So, we had to write our own software
package from scratch. We used a program
called Maxima, which I don't think
exists anymore. Um, and it took us four
months, four months just to get the
equations correct.
Now,
you can see that Deeos and I really
believe this.
>> Mhm.
>> We were going to invest four months. And
we didn't even know it was going to be
four. We didn't know it'd be four
months. It could have been more. And we
didn't even know we'd succeed.
But we did succeed. And we got the
equations exactly. And it only took us
one afternoon to solve them. And when we
solve for the geometry outside of a
static spherically symmetric source, we
got a one over r potential which we were
very very excited about because our
problem had been from the beginning if
we write down a theory which doesn't
contain the Einstein Hilbert action
because G Newton has a scale. How do we
get one over R?
And so we we said well at least let's
try to see if we can get one over R. And
we did and we got the one over r. But
because it was a high derivative theory,
there were other solutions. And the
second solution that we got was a linear
potential.
And we just looked at it and we nearly
we almost fell through the floor because
we realized if the one over r is falling
and the linear potential is rising, the
average is flat.
>> Mhm. And we had the opportunity to
explain flat rotation curves. Now you
might think linear potentials are bad
news. But the they're the good news in
the following sense. If the total
velocity is flat is constant and the
Newton piece is falling, which is
Kepler, then the piece that's missing
must be rising.
The piece that's missing isn't flat. the
piece that's missing is rising because
it's the rising plus the falling which
makes the flat. And so we had a chance
to get the linear potential. Um
we then realized
and and we said this in the paper we
wrote in the astrophysical journal when
we got the solution we said well if
linear potentials are important then the
objects on the other side of the
universe are putting out their own
linear potentials and they must be
affecting local dynamics.
And that's max principle,
>> right? And so we finished up
reinccorporating max principle into
gravity. It's not there in Einstein
because Einstein's geometry is
asmtotically flat. So in the end it
doesn't satisfy Max principle. But here
the geometry is not asmtotically flat
and it does. And so the Max principle in
our view is there's an interaction
between the local and the global
physics. Now, let me ask you a quick
question.
>> Sure.
>> Durk also had a large number hypothesis
which also connected the global to the
local.
>> Yes.
>> And I'm curious if if your work
validates his or if it's orthogonal to
it.
>> I I'm not I don't know enough to be able
to answer that. I'm sorry. Um it's
really a question of why G Newton should
be so much smaller than let's say the
electric charge. If you have two
two objects together a meter apart, the
electric force between them is 40 orders
of magnitude bigger than the
gravitational force. And Draq was trying
to explain that. I have not been able to
do that any more than Einstein does it
because Einstein just says you stick G
Newton into the equations of motion. It
doesn't tell you what G Newton to use.
You just use the one that Caendish had.
>> Yes.
>> But but you've assumed the answer in a
sense. I I I recognize that question.
and I haven't uh been I haven't thought
about it.
>> Ah okay. So what was the next thing that
you did?
>> The next thing we did and it's also in
this paper we wrote back in in the late
1980s.
We asked well we live in an expanding
universe but when we do um galactic
rotation curves we're looking at the
behavior of an of a particle moving
inside a galaxy. So it's in the rest
frame of the galaxy. So we asked, what
would the expanding universe look like
to someone who who's in the rest frame
of a galaxy?
And we worked it through and the answer
was a universal linear potential.
And so we came up with two linear
potentials. One that was local that
we've recovered from the local source
and the other one of which was global
which was coming from the rest of the
universe.
It took me seven years to untangle those
two objects because they were both
linear potentials. But let's go back
first of all to our our solution that
for a static spherically symmetric
source you get a 1 / r and an r. Well, I
said to you right at the beginning
that's what you get with del 4i equals
row. Uh-huh. You see, so the natural
pluson equation in this theory is the
fourth order pluson equation, not the
second order plus equation. And we still
get the same geometry
as Einstein for the solar system. So
let's let's just go back to the solar
system. Uh what what do we need of a
physical theory? Well, we say we want to
recover Einstein, but we don't. Well,
we'd like to. What we need to discover
is the Einstein solutions in the region
where they've been tested. And what's
been tested in the in in the solar
system is that the geometry outside the
sun is rich flat. So we don't actually
test Einstein's equations. We test the
solutions to Einstein's equations.
>> Yes. Exactly. You because Richie flat is
a solution is the immediate exterior
solution to Einstein. We do test it in
the inside when we do cosmology because
we're inside the universe. But as far as
the solar system, we're just testing
outside outside of U Einstein. So what
we're actually doing is not pluson. It's
a little plus equation. It's del square
equals 0. But that equation doesn't make
any sense unless you have a way to get
the coefficient of the 1 / r related to
properties of the interior. So we do
indirectly test Einstein. We know that
it's Richie flat which said it's the the
the metric is one over a constant over r
but that constant you can only get by
solving the Einstein equations in the
interior of the source and then
balancing them at the uh at at the
surface but that only gives you that the
coefficient is the integral of row the
density over the source. It's one
particular moment of the source and you
can't from measuring the moment
determine the integrant.
If you wanted to get the integrant,
you'd have to know all the moments,
but we only get one. So, so there's
that's another another flaw in the
standard discussion is that um the
geometry outside of the sun is Richie
flat
and Richie flat is a solution to
conformal gravity. Now conformal gravity
is based on derivatives of the richy
tens of vanishing.
So if the richy tensor vanishes then its
derivative does as well and therefore
you'll always get back to Einstein's
solution. But the derivative can vanish
without the richy tens of vanishing and
so you get extra solutions like the
linear one.
>> Mhm. So physics that's demanded of what
we know of the solar system is only that
we have to recover the solutions to
Einstein gravity in the region where
they've been tested.
If we get the equations then of course
we'll get the solutions for free but we
don't need the equations. Can we get
those same solutions with a different
set of equations? And the answer is yes.
You could go to fourth order theory,
but then you will get different
solutions when you go to larger
distance.
And so where where Deeos and I finished,
we realized that we had found a solution
to the cosmological constant
by a symmetry which gave us a chance to
get a solution to the dark matter
problem.
And then we have to do fits to rotation
curves. And that took me a long time.
And gradually it emerged I I did most of
the work with my one-time student James
O'Brien. It emerged in the end that the
two linear potentials were both playing
a role, the interior one and the
exterior one. And there was a
competition between them because they
were pushing in opposite directions. And
what we found was that we could fit
138 galaxies, that was how many we were
known at the time, rotation curves,
using just that universal linear
potential coming from cosmology and the
universal linear potential coming from
uh the local source.
And we need a few more things, but we
needed a one more universal parameter
coming from clusters of galaxies.
Um, and we could fit 138 galaxies with
those fixed parameters, the same
parameters for every galaxy. Dark matter
needs two two parameters per galactic
halo. And so it needs 276 more
parameters. Fair. And so we could so
easily have failed
but it turns out that it that it works.
Now at the same time I was making a
slightly different track and that was
well I showed you that when we change
the vacuum which we have to in order to
generate masses then we get a mass scale
but then I'm going to get a cosmological
constant
and that's true. I will get a
cosmological con I'll induce one by
dynamics. Now how is it controlled?
Well, the answer is in the conformal
theory, the trace of the energy momentum
tensor is zero.
And therefore, the trace is controlled
in such a way that the cosmological
constant that's induced cannot be any
bigger or any smaller than everything
else
anything else in in the energy momentum
tensor. In the standard theory, that's
called the cosmic coincidence. Namely, a
mega lamb's 7, a mega matter is.3. So,
they're they're the same today. But the
point here,
>> Right. Right. Right? It's it's a natural
occurrence. Now, there was one piece of
the story that I left out, and that was
that in order to get the cosmology to
look what it looks like in the rest
frame of the galaxy, I needed the
cosmology to have negative curvature.
And then the linear potential would be
the square root of minus the curvature.
But the curvature of cosmology is going
to be uh something like the Hubble
scale. And therefore this extra linear
potential was naturally a cosmological
scale.
I didn't have to force it. Now in the
cosmology you have the background and
you have fluctuations.
The fluctuations I showed produced a
quadratic potential but again universal
because it got nothing to do with the
local source. And so when I finish up, I
have a local 1 / r that didn't go away.
A local linear coming from inside the
source, a global
linear, and a global quadratic coming
from the cosmology and the fluctuations
in the cosmology.
>> Mhm. For
>> and I do three or 4 thousand data
points.
>> Wow. Now, why the heck does this work?
Why does it work? Um if you look at the
ro if you look at the galaxies and you
look at v ^2 over c ^2 r that's the
that's an inverse length
and you just look what that value is for
the whole 138 galaxies
and all of them are coming out to be of
the order of 10 the minus30 inverse cm
which is approximately the inverse of
the Hubble radius written on the data.
Nothing to do with me. It It's there.
Now, you may have heard of a theory
called Mond. That's Mond. That's Mons a
Z. That's why it works because a Z does
set the scale of all these galaxies.
You've had John Muffett on this program.
His theory log, same story. He has that
universal acceleration.
So there's a universal acceleration in
the data
and it has nothing to do with me, has
nothing to do with Mgrim, has nothing to
do with Moffett. It's it's just there.
So if it's Lambda CDM, Lambda CDM has to
explain why there's that universal
acceleration,
you see. So where do I finish? Where I
finish is I've got 138 galaxies.
Um, I can fit all of them using the
luminous matter alone, no dark matter.
And I've replaced dark matter by the
rest of the universe, the cosmology and
the fluctuations in the cosmology. So I
say the missing mass that we've defined
as the original dark matter problem
isn't missing. It's the rest of the
visible universe. And it's been hiding
in plain sight. It's been there all
along. You just didn't want to do it
because you were hung up on one over r.
You see, the problem with one over r is
if it's really true and it's one over r
on all scales. If you have a problem
here, you can only solve the problem by
putting matter where the where the
problem is
because it's it's still local. Whereas
if the linear potential, you could put
matter outside and and and it it can do
the job. And so that as far as I can see
that solves the dark matter problem in
galaxies.
Kurt here. Note that if you'd rather
listen to toe, we're on Spotify, iTunes,
everywhere with a podcast catcher. You
can just search my name or theories of
everything. And also remember to hit
subscribe.
>> Now your colleagues who are telling you,
hey, you shouldn't pursue this. There is
a fatal error, namely negative norms and
ghosts and so forth.
>> Yes. Did they prior to them telling you
this, did they already know about all
the issues that it could potentially
solve? So suppose it solves six of the
major issues, but it has this other
problem. No.
>> Did they know about that or did they
just say it has this other problem?
>> I I would say I would say that it's
possible that people realize that
conformal symmetry would control the
cosmological constant, but they never
pursued it because of the the ghost
issue. So all of all of these things I
found after the fact
just because I I I knew enough about
conformal symmetry that I wanted to
apply conformal symmetry to gravity. Now
I did something else and that was if I
have a space of negative curvature. It
acts like a con a concave lens. A convex
lens will pull the light in. A concave
lens causes light to diverge.
>> Mh. And so if the universe has negative
curvature, photons are given a push by
the geometry and that's the accelerating
universe.
>> And so as soon as I heard about the
accelerating universe, I realized that
I'd written a paper in 1992 which had
all this in it, but I had never pursued
it. And in 1998, as soon as it came out,
I immediately wrote a paper to show that
I can fit the accelerating universe data
without any fine-tuning
that the cosmo I told told you the
cosmological constant was under control.
But it's more
if the curvature is negative because
omega lambda plus omega m plus omega k
is one. If omega k is positive then
omega lambda has to be less than one
because it had to be one minus
something. Therefore what I had already
realized was the deceleration parameter
had to lie between 0 and minus one. No
choice couldn't be anywhere else. If
it's anywhere else then the theory is
wrong. So I worked it through. I got an
expression for the luminosity distance
versus red shift. I applied it to the
accelerating universe data and it lies
right on top of the data with the
deceleration parameter emerging at the
one free parameter in the theory as
minus.37
right between 0 and minus one. Uhhuh.
And that and then of course in this
theory there's no finetuning. So the
universe always accelerates.
It doesn't just accelerate very late.
And so at higher and higher red shift,
this theory is going to depart from
standard theory.
>> Interesting.
>> And what I've been doing so far is well,
I've got the background. I've got the
accelerating universe, but what about
the fluctuations? And is it really true
that I can accelerate all the way back
to last scattering? And I've had a set
of very good students uh Matthew Phelps
Sanka Amora Singh Tananiel Lee and
currently my latest student Daniel
Norman and I have been working on the
fluctuations
and you are fully justified in holding
up on saying this is great until we were
to until we can fit fit the
fluctuations.
I don't know we will but we're working
very hard on it. Um nature may be kind.
Nature may nature may be not kind. All I
can tell you is Einstein
uh once said and we we always quote him
rafin is got uh subtle is the lord but
he went on to say arbashef
but he's not vicious
you see so I think maybe maybe the I've
gone a long way so maybe all all the
other pieces will fall in but
nonetheless that's
so I've handled two separate problems
the cosmological constant problem and
the dogmatter problem. Now let me just
state there's a lot of question now
about land the CDM itself and my view is
if lander CDM is wrong
at some point it's going to start
failing to fit data
and we've seen a little bit of this at
the moment but not enough we've seen the
Hubble tension namely
>> using the land CDM for for the plank
fluctuation data gives us a value of the
Hubble parameter which is about 68 km/s
per mega parc whereas the usual sephiid
cosmic distance ladder gives us 73 and
that's a quite a serious uh difference
it's not much as I'm not in the standard
camp I don't believe it's big enough to
say it doesn't work however the other
issue that's emerging and this is coming
from Daisy Desi is that it looks like
dark energy you might depend on red
shift that it changes with with
cosmological epoch. Now if that were to
be the case
that would be an absolute catastrophe
for the standard theory because the fact
that you would then not make dark energy
a cosmological constant does not mean
that the cosmological constant problem
has gone away.
That was there from that's always been
there from the very beginning. Why isn't
it 10 to the 60? Is it plank scale 10
120? That hasn't gone away.
>> It's made worse.
>> Yeah, it's made wor in other words, a
red shift dependent uh dark energy is is
really bad news for the cosmological
constant problem,
but we'll have to see how how that plays
out. So, there's something else your
theory solves, or I wouldn't call it a
problem per se, but it's more like a
question. If I recall correctly, it's
the size of galaxies.
>> Yes. Okay. So it turns out that I've got
a linear potential and a quadratic
potential. They have opposite sign.
So if the quadratic potential gets too
big,
the distance gets too big, the quadratic
potential becomes negative. But that's
velocity squared and velocity can't be
complex. Therefore, galaxies have to
have a finite size. Now to understand
this, a one over r potential, whatever
else you want to say about it, it never
cuts off.
It doesn't matter how far away you are
from the source, there's always going to
be um there's always going to be a bound
state possibility.
But this is giving an actual reason for
why galaxies have a finite scale. Now,
since you asked me about this, let me go
back and uh discuss what what what
happened with James O'Brien.
>> Oh, and you should know that I have the
ability at any point if you wanted to
show something on screen. You don't have
to pull it up on your computer now, but
I can show it for the audience. So, I
can show finite size length in the in
the galaxies. I can show curves that you
said that your your model was able to
fit the 130 or what have you. So,
anytime you just let me know and it's on
screen.
>> Okay. Um well you can show some rotation
curves of ours if you want. What had
happened was this and this was James
O'Brien's uh PhD thesis with me. Um when
I had first applied this linear
potential to galaxies,
there were only 11 galaxies
that were known that whose rotation
curves were well enough studied that you
could actually do modeling with them.
And while I said that the linear and the
the falling and the rising would balance
as you go out to larger distance the
linear tens linear must win and
therefore eventually the rotation curves
that are flat have to turn up.
Now you should also know that for dwarf
galaxies they already are rising.
It's the bright spirals that are delayed
from rising because the Newton term is
so big because it's a big luminous
galaxy.
>> So I expected to see this rise
and James I said James go ahead and find
some galaxies for me and we'll see what
they look like. And he found me 138
galaxies.
I mean the data for them. I I didn't
even know they existed but he he found
them all. And we apply the theory and it
doesn't work.
It doesn't work because the rise is not
there
in the data. At the point where I
expected the the everything would rise,
it doesn't rise.
And I realized
we went through the data and we found
there were 200 points where my theory
said it should rise and it didn't rise.
>> That sounds bad.
>> Yes. And then now you're going to hear
something quite remarkable. I still had
one extra term in the theory. That's all
the quadratic term,
>> but it's one term with one number and
it's universal.
>> Uhhuh.
>> So I realized what that one term can cut
down one rise. But it turns out it cut
down the entire 200.
>> Yes. Gez.
In one number, we got 200 points that
were rising and they all they all curve
down. And if they keep on curving then
that's what you said before that
eventually uh the galaxy would have to
end.
>> That is quite remarkable. So what
occurred to you both when when you were
able to fit how many 138 you said or 200
with one parameter?
>> It was 138 galaxies 200 data points were
in the um the awkward region. Well we we
just realized it was correct.
we realized that there was something
going on
in galaxies
that was being missed in Lambda CDM.
Now, it may not be that conformal
gravity is the answer, but what I've
been saying all along is here's this
formula with with the linear term, the
two linear terms, and the quadratic
term. If you think that lambda CDM is
the answer, then derive it in lambda CDM
because it fits the data points.
that that's that was what I would ask my
colleagues to do. Um but that's not
happened. Now Mgrim and John Moffett all
of us have been saying look we have
these theories they're the universal
acceleration parameters. If you don't
like them derive them in in your theory.
It's not you shouldn't you shouldn't say
what we're doing is wrong. You have to
say that's up to data. and data is
saying that there's there's a structure
that's that's currently being missed.
Okay. Now, by this point,
I began to think this theory is on the
right track. It's reormalizable. It
resolves dark matter. It resolves dark
energy. And standing in the way of just
one question, the ghost problem.
>> Right. Remind me the year at this point.
Uh this was the year the the year was
2008 and I'll tell you what happened.
>> Bender is coming.
>> Yes. I um had always felt that nature
knew how to handle this problem even if
I didn't. And I went to a conference.
I've known Carl for many many years. And
he talked about the Lee model. The Lee
model was introduced by TD Lee in the
1950s and what it did this was the
[clears throat] early days of
reormalization. It allowed you to
calculate the reormalized coupling
constant in a closed form analytically
which was very very powerful. But as you
move the parameters all of a sudden you
discovered that there was a region where
you suddenly got negative norms.
And so this was a problem that Powley
and Chileen and Lee and Heisenberg had
all worried about but had never come up
with a solution. Um I had actually
looked at this problem when I was in
graduate school. Um there was a theorem
called the Heisenberg nonlinear spinner
theory which preceded everything because
this was still in the 50s and it had an
indefinite metric. Uhhuh.
>> And Heisenberg sort of said, well, you
know, this this solves the scale
invariance problem of the theory, but it
it really was was still a problem. And
Carl had realized that when
you move the dra the reormalized
coupling constant to a certain value and
you got this negative norm. At the same
time, the bur coupling constant became
complex
and the theory was no longer hermission.
And so everything that you've done was
presupposing
that you had a hermission theory.
And Carl had realized have to give you a
little bit of background. In 1998 or so,
Carl and his former student Stefan Bcher
had been looking at the Hamiltonian P^2
+ iX cubed with an I with a complex I.
So the potential is complex.
You would swear
that the that it must have complex icon
values.
You you would absolutely bet any money
that it has complex icon values. Except
it doesn't. All of its icon values are
real. And Stefan and Carl showed that
using WKB approximation. And then a few
years later, Dory Dunning and Teo proved
it as a rigorous theorem that all the
values of P^2 + IX cub are real.
Now Carl had
realized
that that's a theory where you have a PT
symmetry. Parity sends x cub to minus x
cubed and time reversal sends i to minus
i. So ix cubed is pt symmetric. Now
vner in 1960 when he introduced time
reversal had said the following the
shreddinger equation is iid dt. So if I
let t go to minus t I won't keep the
shreddinger equation unless I let at the
same time i go to minus i.
So I need an operator that will complex
conjugate numbers
not complex conjugate functions because
we do that all the time when you take
the emission conjugate but you have to
conjugate you have to conjugate numbers
and that's called antilinear
and what Vner had shown that if you had
an anti-linear symmetry then the
anti-linear operator will conjugate E
into E star because it's a complex cont
and that means that for every E there
should be an igon value E
And so you had two possibilities. E
equals E star. So the energies are real.
>> Mhm.
>> Or the energies are in complex conjugate
pairs.
And so once you have PT symmetry then
you have the possibility of real values
and the P ^2 + IX cubed has that
symmetry
and that's why it values are real. So
when I got interested in this program
when Cole gave this talk he said that
when he uses the PT theory which means
the following. How do you you construct
a norm a probability? Usually you say
you take the cat and direct tells you
take the hermission conjugate of the cat
the bra and the bra ket is the
probability.
That's not the most general
what realized is if the Hamiltonian is
not her mission you take the pt
conjugate of the k
and that norm is positive.
And so when people said that they had a
negative norm theory, what they meant
was the direct formula for this for the
scalar product for the inner product,
the direct formula was was was giving
you the negative answer, not the theory.
You're in the wrong Hilbert space.
The Hilbert space is dictated. If the
Hamiltonian is not hermission, then you
have to use the PT conjugate. I'll come
back to this in a minute. For
relativistic, you have to use CPT.
>> Right? We'll get we'll get to that in a
moment. So when Carl did that for the
Lee model, all of a sudden the ghost
disappeared
and it was a perfectly consistent
theory.
So, I had I hadn't known Carl since
forever, but we were at a conference
together and he talked about this and he
gave a it was in in in Florida at Fort
Lauderdale run by the University of
Miami and he talked about this and I
said to him, Carl, you have a theory
with a that you have a way to get rid of
a ghost and I have a theory with a
ghost. Let's get together.
So, Carl was at the time was uh was in
in Los Alamos for the year. So I went to
Los Alamos
and we sat down and we solved that
problem in three days. In three days we
we we figured out the whole thing. Now
of course maybe 3 days but we both came
with with 20 years of prior experience.
>> Of course.
>> Yes. But in 3 days we'd realized that
conformal gravity was a PT theory and
not a hermission theory.
And then there was no ghost. Now
the thing that
made this work was that going back to
what I said about quantum electronamics,
everyone had always taken it as a given
that whatever the quantum theory of
gravity was, the Hamiltonian would be
hermission.
But it never needed to be hermission.
Her mission is is is too strong a
requirement. Now when I started to work
with Carl I real I realized the
following.
I knew a little I knew a little bit
about this very little but I knew from
my days as a student that if a
Hamiltonian is her mission the values
are real
but I also knew that that's only one
way.
>> Right. Right. You can have something
that's real that's not her mission.
Right.
>> Yes.
>> When you say her mission do you mean
self adjoin in its more general form?
>> Yes. self her mission in the 19th
century understanding of second order
differential equations that you can get
rid of surface terms I see and that's
exactly that's how Dak arrived at
hermission quantum mechanics in the
first place
and because he he copied what people
already knew from from the 19th century
so you can
it's true and you you said it if the
Hamiltonian is not mission it does not
follow that the iggon values are not
real.
So I started to think about this and I
said well if hermaticity is sufficient
to give a real value what's the
necessary condition
so you open a linear algebra book and
you won't find it
and the reason is it's not a linear
condition
it's an anti-linear condition the theory
has to have an anti-linear symmetry and
that's the necessary condition for real
values.
And so what this meant was and why I
think people have never been able to
make Einstein gravity into a quantum
theory is beyond the issue of
reormalizability.
They're insisting that the Hamiltonian
be hermission
because it always has been hermission
and in the fourth order theory it isn't.
But it has an anti-linear symmetry and
that's that's the second flaw. It
doesn't mean that therefore the
Hamiltonian is not hermission. But what
I'm saying is by restricting to her
mission Hamiltonians you would you're
looking at too narrow a problem
because you you it was obvious that the
metric the classical metric is real and
therefore the Hamilton must be
hermission but it doesn't have to be
hermission for the metric to be real. It
only has to have an anti-linear
symmetry.
Okay, so
we worked that through and we published
a paper in physical review letters and
what we basically had shown was that the
1 / k^ 2 - 1 over k^ 2 - m^ 2 propagator
was reormalizable and unitary
because you were in it looked like you
see when I when I write to you a
propagator 1 over k^ 2 - 1 k² - m^ 2
terms cancelling each other. You see the
big advantage is they both go like 1
over k^ squ but with the minus sign the
net effect is one over k to the 4 and so
for very high momenta the one that we
needed the cutoff because we've got all
these modes now you don't have the now
you don't have to worry because now
you've got reormalizability
and when you had John Donahue on your
program that's what he was talking about
was second plus fourth the one of a k
square comes from the second and the
other one [clears throat] comes from the
fourth order and from second plus fourth
you have a reormalizable theory gravity.
But if you look at the propagator,
you've got the 1 over k^ 2 and the other
one has a minus1
over k^ 2us m^2. So if you just take the
normal
vacuum t5 vacuum for the propagator and
put in intermediate states, you'd put
the sum n bra minus the sum mc bra. You
put it in and you get that propagator
and you've got states of negative null
and the theory is not unitary.
However, you can't do that.
You can't look at a C number propagator
and tell me the Hbert space.
If you know the Hbert space, you can get
the matrix elements, but you can't from
the matrix elements get the Hbert space.
And what Carl and I showed in that
theory was that when you thought you
were writing those sum on nn minus sum
on mm equals 1, you had presupposed that
those states were normalizable.
If they were, then that would be
correct. And what we had showed, and
this grew out of work that I'd done a
little bit earlier with Aaron Davidson,
who was another longtime collaborator of
mine, he was at Bengorian University. um
we had shown that the states were not
normalizable
and therefore the whole discussion of
ghosts you were in the wrong hilbert
space. Now does this also work in QFT?
So I imagine this works in QM but is
this
>> Lawrence
>> yes of course I mean what Carl and I did
initially was we did it for quantum
mechanics. I I long since generalized it
to quantum field theory. Yes. But it's
the exactly the same story. Now, we
discovered that the solution to the
ghost problem was not that we got rid of
the ghost, we never got rid of the
ghost. We just showed that the reasoning
that caused you to think there was a
ghost was not valid. Right. Right.
Right. I mean, everybody that was trying
to get rid of ghost was adding on terms
that would cancel something, but you
never needed to do that because it was
never the reasoning was wrong. And what
of course how does it work is instead of
having vacuum T55 vacuum the left vacuum
has to be the PT conjugate of the right
vacuum and not the hermission conjugate
and then when you put in intermediate
states it's no longer modulus squared
and therefore you can get a minus sign
I mean that that's those are the details
but the basic point was and the thing
that saves the theory is that the states
were not normalizable
Now Carl had developed a whole apparatus
for dealing with non-normalizable
states. Namely, there was a way to
continue them into the complex plane. So
if you had think that something that
went like e to the plus x^2 on the real
axis, it went like e to the minus x^2 on
the imaginary axis. And so this theory
lives on the imaginary axis.
And of course if people were trying to
do quantum gravity with everything
living on the real axis and that's in my
opinion why they couldn't succeed.
So so that was the so that was the first
side of the story was was the PT. Now
the second side of the story and I
realized this as soon as I got to know
about PT was that there was a connection
to CPT
and the CPT goes the following.
The Lorent group breaks up into four
units, four regions. There's the one
with the real the real coordinates. Then
there's the one which is related by par,
one which is related by time reversal
and one which is related by par times
time reversal which is PT. Now
parity reverses
the spatial piece. Time reversal
reverses the time piece. So PT reverses
all four components of X mu and that's
Lorent. That's consistent with Lorent.
And so what you discover is that there's
an extension of the Lorent group which
involves a PT transformation into this
other region where X mu is replaced by
minus X mu. And that turns out to be the
covering group of the Lorent group.
And so if you have that as a symmetry
then Carl said look PT is natural. It's
related to the lorren group.
Hermiticity is a is an artificial
requirement on on a function. It's a
mathematical requirement. Symmetry of
the Lorren group is a physical
requirement.
>> So you get vile spinners out of this.
>> Not yet almost. So that's PT.
Now you do it for so you did it for
coordinates. Now you do it for firmians.
So I did it for firmians didn't work.
The reason is for firmians p is gamma 0
and t is gamma 1 gamma 3 but gamma 0
gamma 1 gamma 3 is not a lorent is is
not a lorren invariant. You have to
multiply by gamma 2. Gamma 0 gamma 1
gamma 3 gamma 2 is commonly called gamma
5 is a lorren invariant. But gamma 2 is
charge conjugation.
So for firmians that transformation is
CPT,
not PT.
And so what I'd realized was was that
CPT symmetry was intricately connected
to the complex Lorent group.
And so if the universe is complex Lorent
invariant, then CPT
can follow.
And then if C is conserved then you're
back down to PT which is what you get
for the non-relativistic case. However,
that's not the whole story.
And the reason is if I write down
something like cyosi which is a lorren
scala, it's a CP CPT invariant
but it's now got a coefficient.
How do I make the the the coefficient is
going to be conjugated by by time
reversal? So it may not be real. So can
I make the coefficient real?
And the answer is yes. If I impose
probability conservation
and so I replace the entire discussion
of CPT theorem by complex Lorent
invariance plus probability conservation
gives me CPT.
Now
any non-relativistic theory that
descends from uh relativity
would automatically have probability
conservation
and if you have a non-ermission
Hamiltonian
you need to have the CPT conjugate be
the bra not the hermission conjugate and
then probabilities conserved.
So the key feature and I think this is
what people have missed. The key feature
of quantum mechanics is not hermiticity
is probability conservation.
Hermiticity implies probability
conservation but probability
conservation does not imply hermiticity
any more than herity implies reality but
reality of values doesn't imply
hermiticity. So probability conservation
is in my opinion the most important
feature of the theory and that's that's
how the PT works.
Okay. Now,
as soon as I started to work with Carl,
we solved the problem of the ghost and
now I can tell you why it's guaranteed
that this is the solution. You take the
firm and you couple it to geometry
through the spin connection, which is
how we describe a propagation of um spin
a half particles in a gravitational
field.
You take the action
pi bar i gamma mu d mu plus capital
gamma mu pi that's the coupling of a
direct firm to the spin connection and
you do the path integral over s and si
bar
you get the c^ 2 action
you've integrated out the firmians the
only thing that's left is the metric and
the metric appears as c^ squ why is it
c^ squ because the drag action was
conformal invariant
with the spin connection. So it was
already conformal and therefore you
automatically get um the ced action. So
now you you've only got two argument.
There's only two things you can say
either
the we know the standard theory doesn't
have a ghost. Therefore it could the the
gravity theory could not have one if
it's induced by integrating out the
firmians. But if it did, then the entire
SU3 cross SU2 cross UU1 would collapse
when it's coupled to gravity.
So you've only got two choices. Either
there's no ghost or SU3 cross SU2 cross
U1 is wrong.
And there's no reason for a ghost
because you're starting out in the
theory which are ghost free the standard
model and you just integrate out the
firmians. So in the end there could
never have been a ghost in the first
place. But how do you show that there's
no ghost? You've got to construct the
Hilbert space and get the um and get the
bras. The bras are called the dual
space. And the whole point of these
theories is that the dual space does not
have to be the hermission conjugate
of the [clears throat]
of the of the cats.
There's physics is richer than that.
Quantum mechanics is richer than that.
And that I think is what Carl has really
established is quantum mechanics does
not require the dual space to be the
hermission conjugate the same the same
way that Draq originally introduced it.
It's a richer theory and it's that
richer theory which works in the fourth
order case.
Okay. Now
when I did this
I realized that VNA has said there's an
E and there's an E star.
Therefore I now have a way to describe
decays
because if the energy is complex then
it's E it's E plus I gamma and then E to
the I * E plus I gamma gives you E to
the gamma T which um which can decay. So
for the first time in my career, I had a
way of describing decays.
But you paid a price. You needed both of
them. You needed that one that grows
because it's a complex conjugate pair.
One grows like e to the gamma t and the
other grow falls like e to the minus
gamma t. And when you combine them, the
gamas cancel because you get prob you've
got to get probability conservation
because that went into the CPT theorem.
And therefore each mode the growing mode
cancels the decaying mode and vice
versa. So let's let's see how that
works. We go back to Rutherford.
Rutherford discussed radioactive decay.
And you you ask well it's e to the minus
gamma t. You measure the gamma and you
measure the half-life. And that's how we
get we we do half- livives of materials.
And that looks like it's not unitary
because emission Hamiltonians don't have
complex values. So that doesn't look
like it could possibly be unitary. So
what's going on? Well, it's decaying
into something.
And the decay products are building up.
As the population of the state that's
decaying declines, the population of the
states that it's growing going into
increases. So one decay is e to the
minus gamma t and the other one is e to
the plus gamma t and the total
population remains fixed.
So what you really have to do when you
do decays is you've got to include the
decay products
and then you have and then you have CPT
symmetry.
Okay. Now I wrote a paper in 2018 in JF
A. I was discussing all of this and I
said that if I have
um with if I have an e to the minus
gamma t then vner tells us that there's
a time delay h bar over gamma which is
just the uncertainty principle. So when
a particle travels by a square well it's
it's delayed for a while before it's
released
that's and that's called the bright
vignner formulation of of resonance
formation. So the physics is the wave is
held for a while and then it escapes the
well and then it continues on and it's
held for a time har over gamma
time delay.
But I said, "But there's another one
with a minus gamma,
and that gives a time advance, a
negative time delay, and they're both
operative."
And then I saw an an article in a
strange place, the BBC,
of work by someone else on that was on
your program, a Fry Steinberg, who had
said that when you excite an atom into
the first excited state, it's supposed
to decay with a rate h bar over gamma
where gamma is the radiative width of
the upper level. But he said it doesn't.
It decays right away.
And I wrote a paper which said that the
reason it's decaying right away is
because the time delay is canceled by a
time advance.
And so the net effect is you have a line
width but you have a time you have a
time for the transition which is not
given by h bar over the line width.
It's given by h bar over the energy
difference between the first excited
first and the excited state. The ground
state and the excited state. And so when
I wrote that paper, I began to have some
confidence
that the correct way of describing
decays
is by having both
the both modes at once because that's
what PT symmetry requires.
If if I may, let me tell you everything
that I've told you in in in this
interview
has solved problems that occurred to me
when I was a graduate student.
>> Yes. Yes. And when I was a graduate
student, I was being taught
the grand laws of physics. We used a
textbook by Messier uh which was
excellent textbook. I I've used it when
I teach it when I teach quantum
mechanics. I had an excellent set of
teachers Carl Levenson, Harry Lipkin,
Eagle Tali, Amister Shalit. Um and I
learned a lot of quantum mechanics from
them. But I also as I was listening to
them
uh some things didn't sound right
and I identified four different things
well four and a half different things
that didn't sound right. I'll tell you
the half in a moment. The half was a
discussion of the Heisenberg nonlinear
theory with its indefinite metric which
I I've told you how to resolve that
through the work with with Bender. Um
but the four things the first one was I
said the following the Hamiltonian
generates time translations
parity generates space reflections
time translations and space reflections
commute. Doesn't matter which sequence
you do them because they're acting on
different things.
>> Mhm.
>> And therefore the Hamiltonian must
commute with par.
You see? And of course we knew that the
weak interaction violated par.
And I was told that there was an answer
to that question which was originally
suggested. TD Lee had thought about this
and he said yes but when par acts on a
left-handed neutrino
it doesn't go anywhere because there's
no right-handed neutrino and therefore
the HP commutator isn't defined by the
states. And I had two objections to
that. One was who said there's no
right-handed nutrino? We just hadn't
found one as as of the time that the
time that parity violation was
discovered. And the second was there was
there's a lambda baron which decays into
a proton plus pi minus and it's parity
violating and it doesn't involve
nutrinos. So why should parity be
violated in processes that don't involve
neutrinos?
So I was puzzled by that but I didn't
know the answer. What did he say when
you said that to him?
>> Well, that was Well, I wasn't talking to
TD Lee. I was just talking to my my
professors at the Viceman. Oh,
>> I see.
>> And um well, they they agreed that there
was an issue, but I I didn't know how to
what to do about that. When I started to
work on dynamical symmetry breaking, it
occurred to me that par could be
spontaneously broken,
namely in the vacuum, not in the lrange.
But to do that, I'd have to change SU2
left cross U right cross U1 to SU2 left
cross SU2 right cross U1. Make it chyro.
And the only way I can make it chyal
would be if there were right-handed
neutrinos and right-handed currents.
So now I have to spontaneously break it
down to SU2 left cross U1.
But it turns out that there was a way to
do it and that is when you do the durac
mass it's sy
which links the right-handed firm with
the left-handed firm.
When you look at a myeronomass it's
transpose CI with C is charge
conjugation and that mixes right with
right
or left with left. So if the
right-handed neutrinos got a
myeronomass,
you would break the right-handed sector,
the right-handed nutrinos would become
very heavy. The right-handed currents in
the SU2 right would become heavy and
you'd be down down to SU2 left cross one
and then you could do the standard
thing. So I realized
that par is probably a good symmetry in
the real world and there's another
reason for doing this and that is if we
take the strong interaction is QCD QCD
has a global chyal symmetry
and some of it is gauged and becomes the
weak interaction
but that made no sense to me. If you're
going to gauge any of it, you'd have to
gauge all of it.
And therefore, for me, the weak
interaction is the gauge of the strong
interaction chyro symmetry.
But that requires right-handed nutrinos
exist.
So the my my original concern was well
par would take left-handed to
right-handed. I said yes, but par gets
broken even though that the right-handed
nutrinos are the mechanism for breaking
the par. And so everything ties
together. Now it turns out that there's
some evidence for this now because we
have we found that the neutrinos that we
see in nutrino oscillations are massive.
Now the reason they're massive is if the
two any states that are degenerate then
any linear combination of them is is
still degenerate. Therefore the only way
you can get nutrino oscillations is if
they're non- degenerate.
and therefore at least one of them has
to be massive if there's an oscillation.
How would you make them be such small
masses? Well, there's something called
the seesaw mechanism which is a feed
down from grand unified theories through
the right-handed nutrinos.
So the these very light particles get
the square of the direct mass divided by
the myeronomass of the right-handed
neutrino. So right-handed nutrinos now
are very much in vogue. Okay. So that
was the first issue. The second issue
was
something very strange that I could not
understand. The d the laurent group
has firm the lens group is the
fundamental group of nature. Its
firmians are reducible into a
right-handed vileon and a left-handed
vilemion.
>> So the direct firmian which contains
both of them is reducible under the
lorren group. And I could not understand
how could the Lorent group which is the
fundamental group of nature be reducible
under the spin when the spin of half is
the fundamental building block of
nature. It didn't make any sense to me
that something was wrong. But I as a
grad student I didn't know what what
else to do. So I I left it there.
>> Oh wait just a moment. I'm not
understanding the problem. Tell me the
problem as you saw it as a grad student.
Okay. The problem was the left and the
right-handed firmians
are independent representations of the
Lorren group.
They're not connected. No Lorent
transformation can take you from one to
the other.
>> Mhm.
>> So if you try to build a theory on
left-handed firmians or a theory on
right-handed firmians, those are
disconnected theories as far as Lorren
is concerned. But Lorren is the
fundamental group of the universe at
least was thought to be at that time.
And therefore I would have expected that
the firmians if they're the building
blocks would have been connected by some
transformation.
>> Okay, except I didn't know anything
about what it might be.
When I started to work on conformal
symmetry, I realized I told you the
conformal group has these four five
extra operators beyond the quenom
pankor. Those five transformations mix
the right and the left-handed firmians.
In other words,
the direct
firmian four component and four cross
four * 4 is 15 + one and we've got six
lorren four translations one one
dilitation and four conformal is 15. The
draq spinner is the fundamental
representation of the of the conformal
group
and therefore the conformal group which
I've been using for gravity already I
discussed that the conformal group must
be the fundamental theory of the
universe and it's the symmetry of the
light cone. why I don't like super
symmetry is super symmetry is not the
symmetry of the light cone and that's
why I didn't like it but conformal
symmetry is the symmetry of of a light
cone and therefore furians have to be
four components and then there have to
be right-handed neutrinos
the neutrino could suddenly not be two
component anymore
question about right-handed nutrinos
going way back to when I was in grad
school gets resolved by the conformal
true because it says right-handed
nutrinos must exist.
>> Now, if we're permitting right-handed
nutrinos, then how's that not a
candidate for dark matter? Because
you're already excluding dark matter or
salt dark matter.
>> Oh,
>> with a parameter.
>> So, where are these right-handed
nutrinos then?
>> Well, okay. For the for the moment, uh
they're out of reach. Um I'm sorry to
have to say this and I'm I'm really very
disappointed.
um and that is I haven't yet come up
with a theory that would give me an
upper bound on the right-handed neutrino
mass. I've only got lower bounds and
those lower bounds are not achievable at
the large collider
and so that problem still is still open.
I don't know. um right-handed neutrinos
as a candidate for dark matter would
have to have a much much smaller mass.
They'd have to have maybe a KV mass or
so on. But
>> can I ask you a silly question?
>> Sure.
>> Of course.
>> If the Higs is composite,
>> yes.
>> Do you believe the graviton then is also
composite or is fundamental?
>> It's neither. It doesn't exist.
>> Man, talk about fighting words.
>> [laughter]
>> Yes, going back to this conformal
theory,
when you quantize it,
you find something very very strange and
that is it's a fourth order theory. So
you would say I'm going to have to have
two gravitons
because I' I've double the number of
degrees of freedom. But there's a
theorem due to Weineberg which says that
if you have a spin 2 particle, it must
couple through the Einstein tensor
and therefore I can't I can't have I
can't have that that occur. But there's
a there's an escape clause and the
escape clause is it requires that the
the metric of that Hilbert space be
positive definite.
>> Now we said a moment ago, oh but I just
showed you it wasn't negative definite.
What I didn't tell you because it was
unrelated at the time, it turns out that
I get zero norm.
And so what happens is the graviton
becomes a zero norm state,
not a positive norm state. And so you
have gravitational radiation because
it's a it's a coariant metric theory.
But when you quantize the gravitational
radiation, you don't get a particle.
But even though we always did that with
photons because that presupposed that
you had a Hilbert space of positive
definite a positive definite norm and
Carl and I wrote a paper to show that in
these fourth order theories you can
actually get zero norm photo gravitons
and so the result of that is that
they're not observable. Now I'm going to
say something which you should never
quote me on. Well I've written it so
I'll say it. It's possible that the
collapse of the wave function is due to
the emission of the zero norm gravitton
that we don't connect that we don't uh
observe.
But um that's about as far as I've gone
on.
>> Well, on that question,
>> this is interesting. I'm going to get
you to go a tad further. [laughter]
>> Yes.
>> Because there are two other theorizers
that I see you be extremely close to.
One is Tur Rock/Lam Boil which I'm going
to just place as one theorizer and then
the other is
>> Roger Penrose. So taking the symmetries
of the Ly cone extremely seriously also
reminds me of Twister theory and then
the love for conformal symmetry and his
conformal cyclic cosmology is it also
has a rhyme there. Now you saying that
gravity make me connected to collapse
also has a rhyme with Roger.
>> Yes, of course. And there are so many
other rhymes with Turac boil and that
whole research program as well. So I'm
wondering what is the relationship
between these two broader research
programs? I I have visited Neil and Leam
in Edinburgh few summers ago and what
they're doing is they have a CPT
invariant universe
which has the universe that we have and
then there's a mirror there's a mirror
reflection of it and that can get rid of
the big bang singularity and that's
exactly what Roger Penrose is doing as
well because he has he has a cyclic
universe and when I first started
working on conform form of gravity I
realized that it had a cyclic solution
you see and that would have been the
case if the curvature were positive
but when I finally showed that the
curvature was negative it's a theory
which never has a singularity
and the way the theory solves the
fatness problem is by never being
singular
and so I mean roughly the following you
write down a dot^2 + k is equal to row
is the freerman equation
uh row goes like 1 / a to the 4 1 / a
the 4 blows up when a is zero a dot
blows up when a is zero and k is
irrelevant
and that's the flatness problem so to
get around that Allan goth puts has an
exponential growth before then but what
I do is I say ah yes but you've got the
wrong equation it's a dot square plus k
is equal to minus row and then there's
no singularity
and So then you've got one universe that
lives forever
with no big bang. And that means that in
the early universe the the radius is
finite. So that's a little bit different
from what Penrose and and Tur Rock and
Boiler do lean boy are doing.
>> So there's no period of inflation.
>> Uh no because you you never needed it
because the uni if you look at the
integral of dt over a of t and you take
t a of t is t to the n. If n is less
than 1, then the integral of dt / t is t
is finite
and that's the horizon.
If you do dt /t,
you get log t, which blows up at t
equals z. If you do dt over e to the ht,
it also blows up. It it also it also has
no horizon. So you will get a horizon
for any theory for which the expansion
radius is t to a power greater or equal
to one and exponential is certainly in
that category.
So you don't need to be exponential to
solve the horizon problem and you don't
need inflation inflation to solve the uh
the flatness problem.
Now I said before that inflation in the
end doesn't solve the flattening problem
because what it shows is that omega m
plus omega k plus omega lambda is one
that omega k is suppressed by this
exponential expansion in the early
universe. So you get that omega m plus
omega lambda is one.
Fine.
However before you had lambda you had
omega m equals 1. And therefore you had
a prediction that the that the crit that
the matter density of the universe was
critical. The critical density being it
equal to one. But when you have omega m
plus omega lambda equals 1, you've now
got a real problem because omega m a
mega m is redshifting. Omega lambda is
not. And they have to add up to one
today. So this the.3 and the 7. So
somebody had to adjust the very early
universe 10 billion years ago. So that
land such that the matter density would
fall in such a way that it would just be
catching up with that land would just
catch up with it today. So you still got
a finetuning problem which is called the
cosmic coincidence problem. But
inflation was introduced to get rid of
finetuning
and yet you still have a new you've
solved the fin.
So what was thought when the
accelerating universe was was first
observed, which was 28 years ago, it was
thought that something would happen
before inflation,
which would be related to quantum
gravity that would lock you into those
values so that it would take 10 billion
years before a mega lander could could
build up to one.
And so people looked to string theory to
um to see if they could solve that
problem. Can you show that there's a
string theory very early universe
pre-inflation which will lock you into
the right values of omega m and omega
lambda.
Now of course that hasn't happened. Um
people
always say that string theory can't be
falsified at ordinary temp at ordinary
energies. You have to go to plank scale
energies. But that's not true.
We know that omega lander is 7. We know
it's not 10^ the 120.
Therefore, string theory has to explain
why it's 7 otherwise it falsified. If
string theory could come up with a
number for a mega lambda and it turned
out not to be 7, then then string theory
is falsified
and and that's at ordinary energies. So
that's that's the challenge for string
theory is to explain why it's not 10 to
the 120. And for the moment it looks
like the more natural thing to occur in
in string theory is anti-deitter not
ditter which would make a mealander
negative.
Now the there are that's not the only
thing that can happen but overwhelmingly
it looks like you get a mealander
negative. And so that problem uh is
still there. There's still a fine-tuning
problem in in inflation even without
string theory. And
despite everything, omega m equals.3,
omega lambda equals 7 really works
remarkably well for the fluctuations.
And so if I'm going to be able to get
anywhere, I've got to I've got to
recover those results.
Otherwise, um otherwise I have a theory
of nothing, [laughter] not a theory of
everything. Even with everything else
I've done um with the dark energy, with
the dark matter, with with the um w with
with with the quantum gravity, with the
with the PT theory, with all of that, I
still have this problem of the fluctu I
still have to solve the fluctuation.
It's not it's not it's not that I can't
it's not that I've calculated them and
it didn't work. I I just have this
problem that I have to do the
calculation and that that's where I am
at the moment. So, I've told you about
two things that bothered me in grad
school. the commutation of the
Hamiltonian with par and the issue of
the direct firm being reducible under
the lorren group getting me to look for
group and right-handed neutrinos but
there were two other things that
bothered me what are they
>> okay we were we were told about the CPT
theorem and we were told that it was a
great success because it predicted that
the K plus lifetime and the K minus
lifetime were equal
which they are so particle and
antiparticle have the same lifetime
which is a consequence of CPT.
The only problem that I had with that
was that the proof of CPT theorem
required that the Hamiltonian be
hermission and therefore neither the K
plus nor the K minus would decay in the
first place.
So it just did not make sense to me that
you could apply a theorem that you only
establish for hermission Hamiltonians
that you could apply it to decays.
Now there was a related problem which is
the fourth one which is we learned very
early on that when you look at
scattering in the scattering amplitude
you find a cross-section which peaks
when delta is pi by2 when the phase
shift is pi by2 and you fit it with a
bright vignner you continue the bright
vignner into the complex plane and you
get a pole and you identify that pole
with a particle
and how do we the particle data tables
contained lots of resonances that have
been observed by seeing peaks in the
cross-section.
Now the problem is
you can't have an isolated complex
value.
You either have none or you have them in
complex conjugate pairs because of CPT
>> because because of CPT symmetry.
So first of all I proved CPT theorem
without heraticity only using
probability conservation and then I saw
that I needed a complex conjugate pair
of solutions
and then
they would be
they could be iggon states of the
scattering Hamiltonian
and now you will immediately ask me well
don't I then get two resonances well the
answer is no and it's Going back to what
we said before, it's 1 /
e - e1 - i gamma 1 minus 1 / e minus e1
+ i gamma 1. That's the propagator. And
there's a minus sign in the middle.
And when you add those two together, you
just get one resonance where e when e is
equal to e1.
But if you added them together, you get
more you get something totally
different. So, it's the relative minus
sign that gives you unarity. Except
everybody tells you the minus sign means
it's a ghost, but Carl and I had shown
it wasn't a ghost in the first place. So
now we can put in the relative minus
sign. And that's the Hamilton that's
exactly the propagator that Dra was
using
to try to get to get physics without
dead wood. I think it was he was trying
to get better behave behavior
asmtoically. And um uh Lean Wick did the
same thing. And so what Carl and I were
able to show was that even with the
relative minus sign, you still have
unitarity.
And you have to have it because I'm
getting the complex conjugate pair
because of probability conservation.
And so if I have probability
conservation, I must get unitarity
because that's what unarity is. It says
uh you have time independent evolution.
Um, so all all of those things hang
together. Um,
so
then I I came up with something very
surprising and I only released this very
very recently.
I now go I went to the square well and I
plotted that propagator that I just gave
you 1 / E minus E1US I gamma minus 1 / E
minus E1 plus I gamma.
took the modulus squared to get the
cross-section. I plotted the
cross-section and it's a bell shape.
Okay,
>> which is a re which is a resonance and
it's an exact resonance and you can fit
it with a bright vignner but you have to
fit it with a bright vignner with a
different gamma with a different width
and that's not the right width and
that's what people have been doing and
they've been fitting they've been
fitting it with it with with this width
um using the bright vignner and I'm
saying is that that's not correct
because the bright vignner was never was
never an state of the Hamiltonian and
you can see it in the following way. You
take the square well. It's got a real
potential. So you write down the sh the
the value equation determinant of H
minus lambda I equals Z.
H is real if the potential is real. So
that's a real equation. Real equations
only have two kinds of solutions. Real
or complex conjugate pairs.
Therefore there must be complex
conjugate pairs.
And they must combine the way I just
described with the relative sign in a
way that still preserves probability
conservation and give you a normal
bell-shaped cross-section.
And that's and that's that's then a real
life elementary particle. And so what
you have is you send in a wave you send
and you get scattering of of two
particles and then the the Hamilton the
cross-section grows like e to the plus
gamma gets to the peak and then it falls
like e to the minus gamma. So you need
both effects to produce the one peak and
that's basically the same thing that I
was describing about a frame Steinberg's
uh experiment. It's the same idea. The
time the time delay and the time advance
organ cancel each other.
>> Have you spoken to Steinberg?
>> Uh no no not not not yet not not as of
yet. Um so that's so you can see that
things that I was worried about in
graduate school um I I discovered that
that there were actual answers to them
which were not the answers that could be
given at the time and that they've
really tied in w with everything that
I've been doing and I've really followed
my nose in a way. Um I wanted to get
control of the conform of the
cosmological constant. I went to
conformal symmetry. I solved the theory.
I found I could get rid of dark matter.
I applied it to the accelerating
universe. I found that I could um I I I
could fit it without fine-tuning. I
applied it to the early universe and
found that I had no horizonal flatness
problem.
And then when I quantized it, I found
that it was a PT theory,
which again I didn't know at the time I
started working on it. And all of this
is just it's sort of flowed
automatically from from one step to the
next. Do you have any idea as to how the
Higs acquires its dynamical mass?
>> Oh yes. Um okay.
When you look at electronamics
with uh a fixed point then you get scale
invariance with anomalous dimensions.
And so the firm propagator scales as p ^
2 to a power. That's what anomalous
dimensions mean. You get scale in
variance with a with a power. If that
power is negative,
then you can show that the bare mass is
zero.
That's the same condition. But as you
make the power more negative, you make
the theory more convergent in the
ultraviolet, but you at the same time
make it more divergent in the infrared.
And when it comes down by one whole
unit, the infrared divergences become so
severe that they force you into a
different Hilbert space
and that's that's the mechanism
and then the electron mass is dynamical.
So if you like when I first started
thinking about this you know there's
this idea that goes back to point of how
do you stabilize an elect um an electron
if it's if its energy if MC² is E^2 over
R namely if itself energy is entire mass
and point introduced the point array
stresses
those stresses are coming from the
vacuum
so in a sense this This dynamical theory
that I described to you is really a
theory of of point stresses
and then and then and then the mass the
massive electron is stabilized. Now what
about when it comes to dark matter the
evidence for it isn't just rotation
curves
>> of course. Of course
>> so what about say collisions galaxy
collisions or
>> okay
>> other structure formations or cluster
dynamics etc or lensing? Okay, the
fluctuation theory that I'm working on
will address the anisotropy in the CMBB
and will address a large scale
structure. Whether it'll do it correctly
remains to be seen. However, the issue
of gravitational lensing is much more
subtle. You see, you just take the
lensing formula in a standard textbook
like like Weineberg's book that
presupposes that the light is coming in
from an asmtotically flat geometry
because that's a standard Schwarz
geometric.
Now if I have a linear potential
light is not coming in from an
asmtoically flat geometry and the whole
calculation has to be revised and
there's a spirited discussion in the
literature as to what is the correct
gravitational lensing formula
um when you have a non-asintoic
geometry. Now you might say, "Oh, but
what about the sun? How how do how do we
get gravitational bending by the sun?"
And the answer is we never measure
gravitational bending by the sun.
What we do is we measure the light
without the sun and then 6 months later
the light passes the sun. We're
measuring the difference.
>> Uhhuh. And in the difference the
background drops out.
So we're not measuring the trajectory of
a photon as it goes by the sun. We're
measuring the change in the trajectory
as it goes by the sun. Those sounds the
same. Can you tease out the difference
for me, please? Okay. The calculation of
the bending of light by the sun is the
bending in the local geometry.
And it's you're doing two measurements.
One with the sun in the way and the
other with the sun not in the way. And
you're measuring the difference.
>> Mhm.
>> The difference. It didn't matter what
was going on away from the sun. That's
the same in both cases. So it drops out
in the difference. So the bending by the
sun is a difference experiment.
Lensing by a galaxy due to a distant
quaison the light coming by. It's it's
you're seeing the entire trajectory.
>> Okay?
>> In other words, you can't do the
experiment with the with with the
cluster of galaxies out of the way. So
it's not a difference and that's why
it's that's that's why it's different
and that's why it's become so so very
complicated.
Um, and I'm I'm fully aware of that.
Uh, yes, there's there's many more
things I I I still have to do. Let me
ask you to wrap up a personal question
if you don't mind.
>> Sure.
>> I'm sure as you're developing this
theory, as you've have developed this
along with your collaborators over the
past couple decades.
>> Yeah.
>> That you've encountered criticisms of
various sorts. Like you mentioned a
ghost and what about this and what about
that and what about like some that I've
thrown at you today. But I'm also
curious if you've received more than
just criticism, more like derision that
what are you doing? You're a fool for
working on this. This is obviously down
the wrong path or something like that.
>> Well,
maybe.
>> Well, I don't know if I'll even put this
part in, but I noticed from running this
channel that people who have their own
theory, they tend to look down at other
theories. It's not just mere critique at
at some sort of scientific level.
>> Yes, I I get a lot of resistance. Let me
put it this way. Everything I've written
eventually gets published, but it puts a
demand on my nervous system to get it
published.
You see, I mean, in bad enough that I'm
working on an alternate gravity theory,
but I've also given up hermiticity.
So, so I'm getting I'm getting a I'm I'm
getting flack from every direction. But
the one thing that saves me is tenure.
[laughter]
Tenure allows you to work on any problem
you want. Yeah. But I I've only I've
followed this theory because in I tried
to describe it to you in this interview.
I've just followed the steps one after
the other and that's where it's led me.
It's not that I've I've never invented
anything. I've I've just taken the
theory and solved it to see what it
looks like. And I mean, I can tell you
now, but these some of these things take
years to figure through,
but once you figure out it's very simple
to to describe it, but it's I've not
gone off in different directions. And
look, I mean, you start out with the
standard theory. It doesn't work for
galaxies, so you invent dark matter. It
doesn't work for cosmology. You invent
dark energy. It doesn't work for quantum
theory, so you invent string theory. But
you keep on patching it up. I haven't
done that. I've just taken the theory
and I've solved it. And and it'll take
me wherever it'll take me. And I have no
no control over that. And then I I fit
data. I mean, I shouldn't be fitting all
this data if I'm so completely on on the
wrong track.
The reason I laughed is just because I
thought you were going to say, "What
saved me, Kurt?" And you were going to
say something ethereal, and you're going
to say, "The Dax's confidence saved me,"
or "The Llassian saved me over the
pluson." Yeah.
>> Or, "My wife saved me." Or something
like that. Then he says something
extremely practical.
>> That's not true.
>> Tenure.
>> That's not so true. Tenure is is the
thing. I mean, it's
>> it gives you the freedom to work on
things that your colleagues don't
approve of.
Whereas if you're not tenured and you're
seeking tenure, you have to work on
mainstream physics.
You you will never get hired if you
don't work on mainstream physics. But
once you get hired, once you get tenure,
you're free to work on non- mainstream
physics. Now, I would not choose to work
on non- mainstream physics if I didn't
think the mainstream physics was I
wouldn't choose to work on non-
mainstream physics. I didn't think the
mainstream physics were getting nowhere.
I mean, you know, you you have the dark
matter problem, the dark energy problem,
the quantum gravity problem, and you
just you proceed as as though you can
ignore them.
And I don't understand I I don't
understand why people would do that.
But I'll I'll tell you I I'll tell you
the difficulty that I have and it's
this. I gave a talk once. I I give talks
to to community groups. I get gave a
talk to a middle school some middle
school children and I asked them who
knows the name of a scientist. Every
hand shot up and they all said Einstein.
And then I said who knows the name of
another scientist? Total silence.
And that's that's the danger of of
challenging Einstein.
>> But I'm not challenging him. I'm I'm
taking what he's done and I'm looking at
where there are issues that could still
be addressed. I don't mind if you don't
like what I've done, but you've still
got to address the issues I've raised.
Professor, what advice do you have for
students who are watching?
>> Uh,
well,
don't trust experts.
You know, Vner was once asked, "What's
the definition of an expert?" And he
said, "It's the person who's made the
most mistakes in the field."
And I think that's true. I mean, physics
is we we make mistakes. And and don't be
worried if you make mistakes. Trust your
own judgment.
Uh I also tell everybody um don't work
on conformal gravity until you get
tenure.
>> I think that's the that's the more
practical advice there. again,
>> practical advice. But the um
by the way, I say that a bit cheekily. I
do hope people look into your theory and
I'm going to place many of your papers
on screen and in the description so the
researchers who are watching can inform
themselves.
>> Yes. Okay. Um what I wanted to say was
while we have this grand dark matter
edifice
there's an undercurrent of
dissatisfaction with it.
I mean it's it's been going on now for
40 years and they they keep on not
finding anything
and
uh you know nobody's given up yet. I
mean there are no there are no time
limits in physics. It may take a hundred
years to find it. you know that's the
way the physics works but nonetheless I
think that people are dissatisfied
but not ready to not ready to jump
and if and if this goes on um
I mean John Mford and myself um
Monty Mgram are uh you know we're we're
really out in left field and uh whether
people would ever join bonus remains to
be seen. But we're fairly it's not just
that we're against dark matter. We have
developed theories to deal with the
absence of dark
and that's the that's it's not just
words. I mean and you know the standard
people have have really got to come up
with with with one of these formulas
either the MOG or myself or the man
formula and derive it from lander CDM.
You can't just say that, you know, what
we're doing is nonsense. I'm saying
fine, but the data don't think so.
And you know, physics, maybe I can give
another answer to you. In the end,
physics is an experimental science.
And I've always said that the number of
wonderful mathematical theories
exceeds the number of physically
relevant theories by n minus one.
So don't be too [laughter]
seduced by the mathematics. You've got
to keep data in mind. I I when I did my
PhD, I did did it with um
phenomenologist named Oria or it was a
vitamin institute in Israel and that's
what I learned from him. Always keep an
eye on data.
Nature will tell you what to do. It's
you you should not you can't proceed
without nature. Let let me explain. You
take the rotation group and and it's
designed for integer spin. Well, it has
half in half integer spin
representations,
but that doesn't mean they exist.
They may exist, they may not exist. The
rotation group alone will not force them
to exist. Uhhuh. You see what does force
them to exist by the way is the
conformal group. Uh [laughter]
because then four component firmians
becomes the fundamental representation.
So mathematics will take you so far and
that's that's the language of physics.
That's that's what we do. But you've
always we should never lose sight of
data. And that's what I tell my students
is never lose sight of data.
Nature will keep you nature will keep
you honest.
>> Professor,
thank you for spending so so much time
with me.
>> And I hope you enjoyed it and I know the
audience enjoyed it.
>> It was and is an honor. Thank you. Thank
you very much for inviting me and uh for
giving me an a chance to explain what
I'm doing. It's basically my entire
career. I've been doing this since since
1972.
Hi there, Kurt here. If you'd like more
content from Theories of Everything and
the very best listening experience, then
be sure to check out my Substack at
curtjongle.org.
Some of the top perks are that every
week you get brand new episodes ahead of
time. You also get bonus written content
exclusively for our members. That's cur
t a i m u n g a l.org. You can also just
search my name and the word substack on
Google. Since I started that Substack,
it somehow already became number two in
the science category. Now, Substack, for
those who are unfamiliar, is like a
newsletter, one that's beautifully
formatted. There's zero spam. This is
the best place to follow the content of
this channel that isn't anywhere else.
It's not on YouTube. It's not on
Patreon. It's exclusive to the Substack.
It's free. There are ways for you to
support me on Substack if you want, and
you'll get special bonuses if you do.
Several people ask me like, "Hey Kurt,
you've spoken to so many people in the
field of theoretical physics, of
philosophy, of consciousness. What are
your thoughts, man?" Well, while I
remain impartial in interviews, this
Substack is a way to peer into my
present deliberations on these topics,
and it's the perfect way to support me
directly. Kurtjongle.org or or search
Kurtj Mongle Substack on Google. Oh, and
I've received several messages, emails,
and comments from professors and
researchers saying that they recommend
Theories of Everything to their
students. That's fantastic. If you're a
professor or a lecturer or what have you
and there's a particular standout
episode that students can benefit from
or your friends, please do share. And of
course, a huge thank you to our
advertising sponsor, The Economist.
Visit economist.com/toe
to get a massive discount on their
annual subscription. I subscribe to The
Economist and you'll love it as well.
Toe is actually the only podcast that
they currently partner with. So, it's a
huge honor for me and for you, you're
getting an exclusive discount. That's
economist.com/toe.
And finally, you should know this
podcast is on iTunes, it's on Spotify,
it's on all the audio platforms. All you
have to do is type in theories of
everything and you'll find it. I know my
last name is complicated, so maybe you
don't want to type in Jaungle, but you
can type in theories of everything and
you'll find it. Personally, I gain from
re-watching lectures and podcasts. I
also read in the comment that toll
listeners also gain from replaying. So,
how about instead you relisten on one of
those platforms like iTunes, Spotify,
Google Podcasts, whatever podcast
catcher you use, I'm there with you.
Thank you for listening.